<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0001 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2330EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u p BC-CVN--JacksonText 6thadd   07-19 0428</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-CVN--Jackson Text, 6th add,430</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>ATLANTA: the people.</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   We must defend the poor and deliver the needy. Today in Reagan's
America there are more poor people than ever. Most poor people are
not black or brown. Most poor people are young, white and female.
But what does it matter?
   Red, white, black or brown. A hungry baby's belly turned inside
out _ color it hunger, color it pain.
   Most poor people are not on welfare, they work hard every day
that they can. They sweep the streets. They work. They catch the
early bus. They work. They pick up garbage. They work. They feed
our children in school. They work.
   They take care of other people's children and cannot care for
their own. They work.
   They make the beds in the hotels we sleep in. They wear
uniforms. No one refers to them by name. Hey you, here, go, do.
They work every day that they can. They work in hospitals. They mop
the floors. They wipe the fevered bodies of the sick. They empty
their bed pans. They clean out their commodes.
   No job is beneath them. And yet, when they get sick, they cannot
lie in the bed they made up every day. America is a better nation
than that. We are a better nation than that.
   Leadership must address the high moral challenges of our day. In
the nuclear age, war is irrational. Strong leadership can never let
the desire to look tough stand in the way of the pursuit of peace.
   Leadership. We can take the lead to reverse the nuclear arms
race.
   At the very least, we should pledge _ a pledge the Soviet Union
has already made _ that we will not be the first to start a nuclear
war. First use leads to first retaliation and to mutual
annihilation. Suicide is not a rational defense policy. We must
choose another way.
   Leadership. We can build common security with the Soviet Union.
Shared efforts to work for peace. Joint ventures to wipe out
malnutrition in the world, to explore the heavens, to develop them
for peaceful purposes. Star Wars or a space development initiative.
Redeem scientists held hostage by this mad arms race.
   Leadership. We must change our policy towards the Third World.
Support international law. Respect self-determination. Defend human
rights. Foster economic growth. Be consistent.
   Leaders must address the critical struggles in the world today.
   We can have peace in Central America. Stop the illegal war on
Nicaragua, and join the regional peace process that offers dialogue
and hope.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>MORE</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0002 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2336EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u p AM-CVN--Scene 1stLd-Writethru a0857 07-19 0489</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-CVN--Scene, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0857,490</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Kennedys, Nephew and Uncle, Bring Crowd to Its Feet</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: TOPS with 6 grafs to UPDATE with reax to Jackson at
convention; PICKS UP 2nd graf pvs bgng, `The delegates'</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By HARRY F. ROSENTHAL</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The young man once known to the country as
``John-John,'' son of the Democrats' martyred president, brought
convention delegates to their feet cheering Tuesday night and told
them: ``Because of you, he is with us still.''
   And later, the five children of Jesse Jackson introduced their
father, the candidate, to a hall so crowded they locked the doors.
   Hundreds of delegates, reporters, and convention guests were
stopped by a police line after the fire marshal ordered that The
Omni arena could hold no more.
   Jackson shared his big moment before the convention with the
woman whose refusal to give up her seat on a bus in Montgomery,
Ala., more than a quarter century ago began the turnaround in
American race relations.
   ``All of you think you are seated,'' he said as he introduced
Rosa Parks. ``But you're really standing on someone's shoulders.''
   The convention hall was a waving sea of red ``Jesse!'' signs as
the runner-up in the nominee race appeared, after his children
introduced him one-by-one. Not a single blue sign for Michael
Dukakis, the Democratic nominee-to-be, could be seen.
   The delegates to the Democratic National Convention had been a
rather undemonstrative lot until they welcomed John F. Kennedy Jr.
with a two-minute standing ovation.
   ``Over a quarter century ago, my father stood before you to
accept the nomination for president,'' said the 27-year-old
Kennedy. And then he introduced his uncle, who he said inspired his
generation.
   As if to show that the Kennedy name still carries magic, the
delegates stood and cheered again, for Sen. Edward F. Kennedy, the
dead president's brother and John-John's Uncle Teddy.
   It was a fitting prelude for the big show yet to come, Jackson's
closing speech of his long campaign for the presidency.
   Kennedy, a spellbinding speaker, didn't disappoint the
convention. Until he arrived, many seats were still empty. Like
magic, they filled.
   ``Where was George?'' he asked repeatedly.
   And the delegates responded with a cascading chant, ``Where was
George? Where was George?''
   Said Kennedy: ``We all know the answer to all these questions.
George Bush is the man who is never there. And he won't be there
after the clock strikes noon on Jan. 20, 1989.''
   In fact, Sen. Kennedy was the second speaker of the evening to
bring up ``Where was George?'' Earlier in the evening, Rep. Tony
Coelho of California recited a similar litany and got a similar
response.
   The two speakers may have been telegraphing a battle cry for the
campaign to come.
   The question caused banners to bob up and down in the hall. The
red ``Jesse!'' signs as well as the red-white and blue posters
saying ``Dukakis for President, '88.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0003 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2345EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u p BC-CVN--JacksonText 7thadd   07-19 0430</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-CVN--Jackson Text, 7th add,440</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>ATLANTA: and hope.</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   We can have peace in the Middle East. Mutual recognition for
mutual security, land for peace. We must know that Israeli security
and Palestinian self-determination are two sides of the same coin.
Security for Israel and its borders, its people. Justice for
Palestinians _ peace for both. Reopen and expand Camp David. Help
rebuild Lebanon. And pursue peace in the Persian Gulf. Seek the
release of Terry Anderson and hostages. We reach out to them
tonight.
   We must have freedom in South Africa. Enforce comprehensive
sanctions against the terrorist state. Get South Africa out of
Angola, free Namibia, support the front-line states in their
struggle against South African aggression.
   We can act to end the austerity and desperation that burdens
Latin America and Africa. Engage our allies, relieve their debt,
offer a Marshall Plan for growth and development. Their debt is a
factor in our deficit.
   To do all of this we need bold leadership and a new direction.
Our challenge is put forth in the words of a poem:
   We have mastered the air, conquered the sea, annihilated
distance and prolonged life, but we are not wise enough to live on
this earth without war and without hate.
   
   I am tired of sailing my little boat
   Far inside the harbor bar
   I want to go out where the big ships float
   Out on the deep where the great ones are.
   And should my frail craft prove too slight
   For waves that sweep those billows o'er,
   I'd rather go down in the stirring fight
   Than drowse to death by the sheltered shore.
   Author unknown.
   
   
   We can win. But we must not gain the whole world and lose our
own soul. Our soul is our youth. We must not lose them to drugs,
violence, premature pregnancy, suicide, cynicism, pessimism and
despair. We must challenge our youth with high visions, hope and
dreams. They must not be put in an environment or taught to
submerge their dreams.
   Young people, I challenge you this night, exercise the right to
dream. Face reality, but don't stop with the way things are, dream
of things as they ought to be. Face pain, but love, hope, faith and
dreams will help you to rise above pain. Use hope and imagination
as weapons of survival and progress. Use hope to motivate you and
love to obligate you to serve the human race.
   Dream. Dream of peace. Choose the human race over the nuclear
race. We must bury the weapons and not burn the people.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>MORE</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0004 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2348EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u p BC-CVN--Platform-Text 1stLd-Writethru a0688-a0689-a0691-a0692-a0694
07-19 1139</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-CVN--Platform-Text, 1st Ld-Writethru,</2ND_LINE>
<TEXT>
   a0688-a0689-a0691-a0692-a0694, 5 Takes,990-up
</TEXT>
<NOTE>Eds: Updates with final version; no pickup</NOTE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Here is the text of the platform approved Tuesday
night by the Democratic National Convention.
   The delegates added nine compromise amendments to the final
platform. Five involved additional language on health care, the
Cold War, a moratorium on flight testing of nuclear missiles, and
Central America incorporated in the passages below.
   Four others _ dealing with a ``comprehensive budget'' plank;
pre-natal care, the Womens, Infants and Children program and Head
Start; Lebanon and the Persian Gulf; and education _ were contained
in separate paragraphs that appear at the bottom. Democratic party
officials said they were not yet certain where those four
paragraphs will appear in the document.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>The Restoration of Competence and the Revival of Hope</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   
   We the people of the Democratic Party of the United States of
America, in order to initiate the changes necessary to keep America
strong and make America better, in order to restore competence,
caring and incorruptibility to the federal executive branch and get
it working again fairly for all Americans, and in order to secure
for our children a future of liberty and opportunity, hereby pledge
our party, our leaders, our elected officials and our every
individual effort to fulfilling the following fundamental
principles for all members of the American family.
   We believe that all Americans have a fundamental right to
economic justice in a stronger, surer national economy, an economy
that must grow steadily without inflation, that can generate a
rising standard of living for all and fulfill the desire of all to
work in dignity up to their full potential in good health with good
jobs at good wages, an economy that is prosperous in every region,
from coast to coast, including our rural towns and our older
industrial communities, our mining towns, our energy producing
areas and the urban areas that have been neglected for the past
seven years.
   We believe that, as a first-rate world power moving into the
21st century, we can have a first-rate full employment economy,
with an indexed minimum wage that can help lift and keep families
out of poverty, with training and employment programs _ including
child care and health care _ that can help people move from welfare
to work, with portable pensions and an adequate Social Security
system, safeguarded against emasculation and privatization, that
can help assure a comfortable and fulfilling old age, with
opportunities for voluntary national public service, above and
beyond current services, that can enrich our communities, and with
all workers assured the protection of an effective law that
guarantees their rights to organize, join the union of their
choice, and bargain collectively with their employer, free from
anti-union tactics.
   We believe that the time has come for America to take charge
once again of its economic future, to reverse seven years of
``voodoo economics,'' ``trickle down'' policies, fiscal
irresponsibility, and economic violence against poor and working
people that have converted this proud country into the world's
largest debtor nation, mortgaged our children's future by tripling
our national debt, placed home ownership out of reach for most
young families, permitted the rise of poverty and homelessness on
the streets of America, reduced the buying power of working men and
women, and witnessed the decline of our industrial, natural
resource and mining base, the unending tragedy of family farm
foreclosures, an unhealthy dependence on foreign energy and foreign
capital, and the increasing foreign ownership of our land and
natural resources.
   We believe that it is time for America, within a strong
commitment to fiscal responsibility, to reassert progressive values
and reinvest in its people, to invest in new priorities, in
lifelong education and training, in targeted economic development,
in a healthy small business community and in retooled American
industry; that it is time for the broad revitalization of home town
America, involving financial institutions in the provision of
crucial credit by encouraging special commitments in exchange for
bailing out those that are failing, reforming and expanding
community reinvestment laws, and reversing the trend of financial
concentration and deregulation, all combining to reverse the
insecurity that has increasingly troubled our workers and their
families in this rapidly changing society that has left some
communities and regions behind.
   There is no good reason why the nation we love, the greatest and
richest nation on earth, should rank first among the industrialized
nations in output per person but nearly last in infant mortality,
first in the percentage of total expenditures devoted to defense
but nearly last in the percentage devoted to education and housing.
   We believe that government should set the standard in
recognizing that worker productivity is enhanced by the principle
of pay equity for working women and no substandard wage competition
for public contracts; by family leave policies that no longer force
employees to choose between their jobs and their children or ailing
parents; by safe and healthy work places, now jeopardized by seven
callous years of lowered and unenforced occupational safety
standards for American workers; and by major increases in
assistance making child care more available and affordable to
low-and middle-income families, helping states build a strong child
care infrastructure, setting minimum standards for health, safety,
and quality, and thereby enabling parents to work and their
children to get an early start on their education and personal
fulfillment.
   We believe that the strength of our families is enhanced by
programs to prevent abuse and malnutrition among children, crime,
dropouts and pregnancy among teen-agers and violence in the family;
by aggressive child support enforcement; and by emphasizing family
preservation and quality foster care.
   We believe that America needs more trade, fair trade, an
administration willing to use all the tools available to better
manage our trade in order to export more American goods and fewer
American jobs, an administration willing to recognize in the
formulation and enforcement of our trade laws that workers' rights
are important human rights abroad as well as at home, and that
advance notice of plant closings and major layoffs is not only
fundamentally right but also economically sound. We believe that we
can and must improve our competitiveness in the world economy,
using our best minds to create the most advanced technology in the
world through a greater commitment to civilian research and
development and to science, engineering and mathematics training,
through more public-private and business-labor cooperation and
mutual respect, through more intergovernmental partnerships, and
through a better balance between fiscal and monetary policy and
between military and civilian research and development.
   We further believe in halting such irresponsible corporate
conduct as unproductive takeovers, monopolistic mergers, insider
trading, and golden parachutes for executives by reinvigorating our
antitrust and securities laws, reviewing large mergers, and
discouraging short-term speculation taking place at the expense of
long-term investment.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>MORE</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0005 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2351EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u p BC-CVN--Platform-Text 1stld-Writethru 1stadd 07-19 0976</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-CVN--Platform-Text, 1st ld-Writethru, 1st add,990</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>ATLANTA: long-term investment.</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   We believe that the education of our citizens, from Head Start
to institutions of higher learning, deserves our highest priority,
and that history will judge the next administration less by its
success in building new weapons of war than by its success in
improving young minds. We believe that this nation needs to invest
in its children on the front side of life by expanding the
availability of preschool education for children at risk; to invest
in its teachers through training and enrichment programs, including
a National Teacher Corps to recruit teachers for tomorrow,
especially minorities, with scholarships today; to commit itself
for the first time to the principle that no one should be denied
the opportunity to attend college for financial reasons; to ensure
equal access to education by providing incentives and mechanisms
for the equalization of financing among local school districts
within each state; to reverse cuts made in compensatory reading,
math and enrichment services to low-income children; and to expand
support for bilingual education, historically black and Hispanic
institutions, the education of those with special needs, the arts
and humanities, and an aggressive campaign to end illiteracy.
   We believe that illegal drugs pose a direct threat to the
security of our nation from coast to coast, invading our
neighborhoods, classrooms, homes and communities large and small;
that every arm and agency of government at every federal, state and
local level _ including every useful diplomatic, military,
educational, medical and law enforcement effort necessary _ should
at long last be mobilized and coordinated with private efforts
under the direction of a national drug ``czar'' to halt both the
international supply and the domestic demand for illegal drugs now
ravaging our country; and that the legalization of illicit drugs
would represent a tragic surrender in a war we intend to win. We
believe that this effort should include comprehensive programs to
educate our children at the earliest ages on the dangers of alcohol
and drug abuse, readily available treatment and counseling for
those who seek to address their dependency, the strengthening of
vital interdiction agencies such as the U.S. Coast Guard and
Customs, a summit of Western hemispheric nations to coordinate
efforts to cut off drugs at the source, and foreign development
assistance to reform drug-based economies by promoting crop
substitution.
   We believe that the federal government should provide increased
assistance to local criminal justice agencies, enforce a ban on
``cop killer'' bullets that have no purpose other than the killing
and maiming of law enforcement officers, reinforce our commitment
to help crime victims, and assume a leadership role in securing the
safety of our neighborhoods and homes. We further believe that the
repeated toleration in Washington of unethical and unlawful greed
among too many of those who have been governing our nation,
procuring our weapons and polluting our environment has made far
more difficult the daily work of the local policemen, teachers and
parents who must convey to our children respect for justice and
authority.
   We believe that we honor our multicultural heritage by assuring
equal access to government services, employment, housing, business
enterprise and education to every citizen regardless of race, sex,
national origin, religion, age, handicapping condition or sexual
orientation; that these rights are without exception too precious
to be jeopardized by federal judges and Justice Department
officials chosen during the past years _ by a political party
increasingly monolithic both racially and culturally _ more for
their unenlightened ideological views than for their respect for
the rule of law. We further believe that we must work for the
adoption of the Equal Rights Amendment to the Constitution; that
the fundamental right of reproductive choice should be guaranteed
regardless of ability to pay; that our machinery for civil rights
enforcement and legal services to the poor should be rebuilt and
vigorously utilized; and that our immigration policy should be
reformed to promote fairness, nondiscrimination and family
reunification and to reflect our constitutional freedoms of speech,
association and travel.
   We further believe that the voting rights of all minorities
should be protected, the recent surge in hate violence and negative
stereotyping combated, the discriminatory English-only pressure
groups resisted, our treaty commitments with native Americans
enforced by culturally sensitive officials, and the lingering
effects of past discrimination eliminated by affirmative action,
including goals, timetables, and procurement set-asides.
   We believe that the housing crisis of the 1980s must be halted _
a crisis that has left this country battered by a rising tide of
homelessness unprecedented since the Great Depression, by a
tightening squeeze on low- and moderate-income families that is
projected to leave 7 million people without affordable housing by
1993, and by a bleak outlook for young working families who cannot
afford to buy their first home. We believe that steps should be
taken to ensure a decent place to live for every American.
   We believe that homelessness _ a national shame _ should be
ended in America; that the supply of affordable housing should be
expanded in order to avoid the projected shortfall; that
employer-assisted housing and development by community based
nonprofit organizations should be encouraged; that the inventory of
public and subsidized housing should be renovated, preserved and
increased; that foreclosed government property should be restored
to productive use; and that first-time home buyers should be
assisted.
   We believe that we can rebuild America, creating good jobs at
good wages through a national reinvestment strategy to construct
new housing, repair our sewers, rebuild our roads and replace our
bridges. We believe that we must pursue needed investment through
innovative partnerships and creative financing mechanisms such as a
voluntary program to invest a portion of public and private pension
funds as a steady source of investment capital by guaranteeing
security and a fair rate of return and assuring sound project
management.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>MORE</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0006 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2353EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u p BC-CVN--Platform-Text 1stLd-Writethru 2ndadincemay21st.
07-19 1179</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-CVN--Platform-Text, 1st Ld-Writethru, 2nd add,990</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>ATLANTA: project management.</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   We believe that all Americans should enjoy access to affordable,
comprehensive health services for both the physically and mentally
ill, from prenatal care for pregnant women at risk to more adequate
care for our Vietnam and other veterans, from well-baby care to
childhood immunization to Medicare; that a national health program
providing federal coordination and leadership is necessary to
restrain health care costs while assuring quality care and advanced
medical research; that quality, affordable, long-term home and
health care should be available to all senior and disabled
citizens, allowing them to live with dignity in the most
appropriate setting; that an important first step toward
comprehensive health services is to ensure that every family should
have the security of basic health insurance; and that the HIV-AIDS
epidemic is an unprecedented public health emergency requiring
increased support for accelerated research on, and expedited FDA
approval of, treatments and vaccines, comprehensive education and
prevention, compassionate patient care, adoption of the public
health community consensus on voluntary and confidential testing
and counseling, and protection of the civil rights of those
suffering from AIDS or AIDS-Related Complex or testing positive for
the HIV antibody.
   We believe that the last seven years have witnessed an
unprecedented assault on our national interest and national
security through the poisoning of our air with acid rain, the
dumping of toxic wastes into our water, and the destruction of our
parks and shores; that pollution must be stopped at the source by
shifting to new, environmentally sound manufacturing and farming
technologies; that the federal government must promote recycling as
the best, least costly way to solve the trash crisis, aggressively
enforce toxic waste laws and require polluters to be responsible
for future cleanup costs; that this nation must redouble its
efforts to provide clean waterways, sound water management and safe
drinkable ground water throughout the country; that our national
parks, forests, wildlife refuges, and coastal zones must be
protected and used only in an environmentally sound manner; that
all offshore oil drilling in environmentally sensitive areas should
be opposed; and that regular world environment summits should be
convened by the United States to address the depletion of the ozone
layer, the ``greenhouse effect,'' the destruction of tropical
forests and other global threats and to create a global action plan
for environmental restoration.
   We believe that all Americans, producers and consumers alike,
benefit when food and fiber are produced not by a few large
corporations and conglomerates but by hundreds of thousands of
family farmers obtaining a fair price for their product; that the
disastrous farm policies of the last seven years, despite record
federal spending, have forced hundreds of thousands of families
from their farms while others are struggling to survive; and that a
workable agricultural policy should include supply management,
reasonable price supports, soil conservation and protection of
rural water quality, credit and foreclosure relief, the return of
federally held foreclosed lands to minority, beginning and
restarting farmers, the development of new uses and markets for
American farm products, improved disaster relief, and the
revitalization of rural America through new sources of capital for
rural business and new federal support for rural health care,
housing, education, water supply and infrastructure.
   We further believe that no person should go to bed hungry and
that we must renew the fight against hunger at home and abroad,
make food available to those nations who need it and want it, and
convene an international conference of food producing nations.
   We believe that a balanced, coherent energy policy, based on
dependable supplies at reasonable prices, is necessary to protect
our national security, ensure a clean environment, and promote
stable economic growth and prosperity, both nationally and in our
energy producing regions; that the inevitable transition from our
present, nearly total dependence on increasingly scarce and
environmentally damaging nonrenewable sources to renewable sources
should begin now; that such a policy includes increased cooperation
with our hemispheric neighbors, filling that Strategic Petroleum
Reserve, promoting the use of natural gas, methanol and ethanol as
alternative transportation fuels, encouraging the use of our vast
natural gas and coal reserves while aggressively developing clean
coal technology to combat acid rain, and providing targeted new
incentives for new oil and gas drilling and development, for the
development of renewable and alternative sources of energy, and for
the promotion of energy conservation. We believe that with these
changes the country could reduce its reliance on nuclear power
while insisting that all plants are safe, environmentally sound and
assured of safe waste disposal.
   We believe that this country's democratic processes must be
revitalized: by securing universal, same day and mail-in voter
registration as well as registration on the premises of appropriate
government agencies; by preventing the misuse of at-large
elections, the abuse of election day challenges and registration
roll purges, any undercounting in the national census, and any
dilution of the one-person, one-vote principle; by ending
discrimination against public employees who are denied the right to
full political participation; by supporting statehood for the
District of Columbia; by treating the offshore territories under
our flag equitably and sensitively under federal policies,
assisting their economic and social development and respecting
their right to decide their future in their relationship with the
United States; by empowering the commonwealth of Puerto Rico with
greater autonomy within its relationship with the United States to
achieve the economic, social and political goals of its people, and
by giving it just and fair participation in federal programs; by
assuring and pledging the full and equal access of women and
minorities to elective office and party endorsement; and by
minimizing the domination and distortion of our election by moneyed
interests.
   We believe in a stronger America ready to make the tough choices
of leadership in an ever-dangerous world: militarily stronger in
our overall defense and anti-terrorist capabilities and in the
cohesion of our military alliances; economically stronger at home
and in the global marketplace; intellectually stronger in the
advances of our schools, science and technology; and spiritually
stronger in the principles we exemplify to the world.
   We believe in a clearheaded, tough-minded, decisive American
foreign policy that will reflect the changing nature of threats to
our security and respond to them in a way that reflects our values
and the support of our people, a foreign policy that will respect
our Constitution, our Congress and our traditional democratic
principles and will in turn be respected for its quiet strength,
its bipartisan goals, and its steadfast attention to the concerns
and contributions of our allies and international organizations.
   We believe that we must reassume a role of responsible active
international leadership based upon our commitment to democracy,
human rights and a more secure world; that this nation, as the
world power with the broadest global interests and concerns, has a
greater stake than any in building a world at peace and governed by
law; that we can neither police the world nor retreat from it; and
that to have reliable allies we must be a reliable ally.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>MORE</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0007 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2355EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u p BC-CVN--Platform-Text 1stLd-Writethru 3rdadd 07-19 1416</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-CVN--Platform-Text, 1st Ld-Writethru, 3rd add,990</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>ATLANTA: reliable ally.</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   We believe that our national strength has been sapped by a
defense establishment wasting money on duplicative and dubious new
weapons instead of investing more in readiness and mobility; that
our national strength will be enhanced by more stable defense
budgets and by a commitment from our allies to assume a greater
share of the costs and responsibilities required to maintain peace
and liberty; and that as military spending and priorities change,
government should encourage the conversion of affected military
facilities and the retraining of workers to facilitate the creation
of new forms of communication, space development and new peacetime
growth and productivity.
   We believe in an America that will promote peace and prevent war
_ not by trading weapons for hostages, not by sending brave
Americans to undefined missions in Lebanon and Honduras, not by
relaxing our vigilance on the assumption that long-range Soviet
interests have permanently changed, not by toasting a tyrant-like
Marcos as a disciple of democracy, but by maintaining a stable
nuclear deterrent sufficient to counter any Soviet threat, by
standing up to any American adversaries whenever necessary and
sitting down with them whenever possible, by making clear our
readiness to use force when force is required to protect our
essential security commitments, by testing the intentions of the
new Soviet leaders about arms control, emigration, human rights and
other issues, and by matching them not merely in rhetoric but in
reciprocal initiatives and innovation, which takes advantage of
what may be the greatest opportunity of our lifetime to establish a
new, mutually beneficial relationship with the Soviet Union, in
which we engage in joint efforts to combat environmental threats,
explore peaceful uses of space and eradicate disease and poverty in
the developing world, and in a mutual effort to transform the arms
race that neither side can win into a contest for people's minds, a
contest we know our side will win.
   We believe in following up the INF Treaty, a commendable first
step, with mutual, verifiable and enforceable agreements that will
make significant reductions in strategic weapons in a way that
diminishes the risk of nuclear attack by either superpower; reduce
conventional forces to lower and equivalent levels in Europe,
requiring deeper cuts on the Warsaw Pact side; ban chemical and
space weapons in their entirety; promptly initiate a mutual
moratorium on missile flight testing and halt all nuclear weapons
testing while strengthening our efforts to prevent the spread of
these weapons to other nations before the nightmare of nuclear
terrorism engulfs us all.
   We believe in an America that recognizes not only the realities
of East-West relations but the challenges and opportunities of the
developing world; that will support and strengthen international
law and institutions, promote human and political rights and
measure them by one yardstick, and work for economic growth and
development. We believe that we must provide leadership, compassion
and economic assistance to those nations stunted by overwhelming
debt, deprivation and austerity, and that we must work to promote
active agreements between developing and industrial countries, and
the major public and commercial lenders, to provide debt relief and
rekindle and sustain economic growth and democracy in Latin
America, Asia, and the poorest continent, Africa, which deserves
special attention. We further believe that we must enlist the trade
surplus nations to join with us in supporting new aid initiatives
to fuel growth in developing countries that, though economically
depressed, are rich in human and natural potential.
   We believe this country should work harder to stop the supplies
of arms, from both East and West, that fuel conflict in regions
such as the Persian Gulf and Angola.
   Deeply disturbed that the current administration has too long
abandoned the peace process in the Middle East and consistently
undermined it in Central America, we believe that this country,
maintaining the special relationship with Israel founded upon
mutually shared values and strategic interests, should provide new
leadership to deliver the promise of peace and security through
negotiations that has been held out to Israel and its neighbors by
the Camp David Accords and to Central America by the Arias Peace
Plan, which calls for an end to the fighting, national
reconciliation, guarantees of justice, freedom, human rights and
democracy, an end to support for irregular forces, and a commitment
by the Central American governments to prevent the use of their
territory to destabilize others in the region. Instead of the
current emphasis on military solutions we will use negotiations and
incentives to encourage free and fair elections and security for
all nations in the region. We will cease dealing with drug
smugglers and seek to reconcile our differences with countries in
Central America, enabling the United States and other countries to
focus on the pressing social and economic needs of the people of
that region. We further believe in pursuing a policy of economic
cooperation instead of confrontation with Mexico and our other
hemispheric friends; in helping all developing countries build
their own peaceful democratic institutions free from foreign
troops, subversion and domination and free from domestic dictators
and aggressors; in honoring our treaty obligations; and in using
all the tools at our disposal, including diplomacy, trade, aid,
food, ideas, and ideals, to defend and enlarge the horizons of
freedom on this planet.
   We believe in an America that will promote human rights, human
dignity and human opportunity in every country on earth; that will
encourage free speech and association and decry oppression in
nations friendly and unfriendly, communist and non-communist, that
will encourage our European friends to respect human rights and
resolve their longstanding differences over North Ireland and
Cyprus; that will encourage wherever possible the forces of
pluralism and democracy in Eastern Europe and that will support the
struggle for human rights in Asia.
   We believe the apartheid regime in South Africa to be a uniquely
repressive regime, ruthlessly deciding every aspect of public and
private life by skin color, engaging in unrelenting violence
against its citizens at home and promoting naked aggression against
its neighbors in Africa.
   We believe that the time has come to end all vestiges of the
failed policy of constructive engagement, to declare South Africa a
terrorist state, to impose comprehensive sanctions upon its
economy, to lead the international community in participation in
these actions, and to determine a date certain by which United
States corporations must leave South Africa. We further believe
that to achieve regional security in Southern Africa, we must press
forcefully for Namibia's independence by calling for the end of
South Africa's illegal occupation, a cease fire and elections, must
end our counterproductive policy in Angola and must offer support
and further assistance to Mozambique and other frontline states.
   In sum, we believe it is time for America to change and move
forward again in the interest of all its families _ to turn away
from an era in which too many of America's children have been
homeless or hungry and invest in a new era of hope and progress, an
era of secure families in a secure America in a secure world.
   We believe the American dream of opportunity for every citizen
can be a reality for all Americans willing to meet their own
responsibilities to help make it come true.
   We believe that governments at the national, state and local
level, in partnerships between those levels and in partnerships
with the private sector, exist to help us solve our problems
instead of adding to them. We believe in competent, pragmatic
governments, accountable to the people, led by men and women
dedicated not to self interest but to service, motivated not by
ideology but by American ideals, governing not in a spirit of power
and privilege but with a sense of compassion and community. For
many years, in state and local capitals across this nation,
Democrats have been successfully solving problems and helping
people with exactly this kind of innovative government.
   Therefore, the Democratic Party in convention assembled and
united, the party of hope and change and fairness for all, hereby
declares its readiness to end the stalemate in Washington by
challenging, encouraging and inviting the American people _
challenging them to do their patriotic best to meet their community
responsibilities, encouraging them to protect and preserve their
families, our most precious assets, and inviting them to join with
us in leading the land we love to a brighter and still greater
future of opportunity and justice for all.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>MORE</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0008 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2356EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u p BC-CVN--Platform-Text 1stLd-Writethru 4thad</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-CVN--Platform-Text, 1st Ld-Writethru, 4th add,250</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>ATLANTA: for all.</HEAD>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   
   Here is the text of the four other amendments added to the
platform Tuesday night:
</TEXT>
<HEAD>COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   We believe that it is time for America to meet the challenge to
change priorities after eight years of devastating Republican
policies, to reverse direction and reassert progressive values, to
reinvest in its people within a strong commitment to fiscal
responsibility. If we are seriously to pursue our commitments to
build a secure economic future for all Americans we must provide
the resources to care for our newborns, educate our children, house
the homeless, heal the sick, wage total war on drugs and protect
the environment.
   Investing in America and reducing the deficit requires that the
wealthy and corporations pay their fair share and that we restrain
Pentagon spending.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>PRE-NATAL CARE, WIC, HEAD START</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   We further believe that our nation faces a crisis of
underinvestment in our children, particularly in the early years of
life. Strong, healthy babies with early opportunities that foster
intellectual, emotional and physical growth begin school with an
enhanced foundation for learning. There are few better investments
for this country than prenatal care, infant nutrition and preschool
education, and there are few more successful programs than WIC,
Head Start, and prenatal care. We know what works; yet these
successful programs have been starved for funds. The Democratic
Party pledges to meet this urgent need by providing the funding
necessary to reach those unserved children who are _ and must be _
our national priority.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>LEBANON AND THE PERSIAN GULF</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   We support the sovereignty, independence, and territorial
integrity of Lebanon with a central government strong enough to
unite its people, maintain order and live in peace in the region.
We are committed to Persian Gulf security and freedom of navigation
of international waters, and to an end to the Iran-Iraq war by
promoting United Nations efforts to achieve a cease-fire and a
negotiated settlement, through an arms embargo on the combatants.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>EDUCATION</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   We now spend only two cents of every federal dollar for
education. We pledge to better balance our national priorities by
significantly increasing federal funding for education.

</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0009 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0111EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w AM-AIDEmployee     07-19 0112</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-AID Employee,110</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Embezzlement Suspect Released On $500,000 Bond</HEAD>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   An Agency for International Development
employee charged in the embezzlement of $1.2 million in government
funds was released Monday on $500,000 bond.
   William John Burns, an AID financial officer, was arrested last
week on allegations of diverting unused government travel funds.
   Burns' brother and sister put up their homes as collateral to
arrange for his release.
   Government prosecutors opposed releasing Burns, calling him a
``very serious flight risk.''
   The government has put a restraining order on Burns' bank
account, his home in suburban Burtonsville, Md., as well as five
cars and luxury goods allegedly bought with stolen government funds.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0010 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0028EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i AM-Philippines 1stLd-Writethru   07-19 0580</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Philippines, 1st Ld-Writethru,a0876,0596</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Rebels Reject Aquino Peace Talks Offer</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: INSERT one graf after 11th pvs, About five ... ADDING
Sunday's conditional agreement by guerrilla group to talks. Picks
up 12th graf pvs, In a ...</NOTE>
<TEXT>
   .
</TEXT>
<BYLINE>By CLARO CORTES</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>MANILA, Philippines (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Communist rebels rejected new peace
talks with President Corazon Aquino as a ``farce'' Monday, charging
her government and the military merely wanted to trap leaders of
the 19-year-old insurgency.
   Self-styled communist rebels meanwhile killed a provincial
official Monday and a guerrilla spokesman warned of more killings
as long as the government fails, he said, to prosecute human rights
violators in the military.
   The general command of the communist New People's Army, in a
statement sent by courier to news agencies, claimed Mrs. Aquino's
government lost its credibility following the collapse of peace
talks last year.
   Mrs. Aquino has said she would agree to new peace talks if the
rebels made the first move.
   Defense Secretary Fidel Ramos said the Defense Department and
the 250,000-member armed forces would abide by her decision. Ramos
earlier turned down the possibility of reviving the talks, saying
it would only give the rebels time to regroup.
   ``The president has spoken,'' Ramos told reporters. ``I don't
think there is anyone that will oppose any objective such as
obtaining peace, but it must be peace with justice and honor.''
   The rebel statement was in response to a call last week by the
influential Catholic Bishops' Conference of the Philippines for the
government and the guerrillas to call for a new cease-fire and
revive peace talks.
   ``History repeats itself twice: the first as tragedy, the second
as farce,'' the statement said.
   ``We cannot ... respond positively to a call for a new
cease-fire that will mean the annihilation of the revolutionary
movement and its mass base. We have learned our lessons well from
the duplicity of the Aquino government and its military
establishment.''
   The rebels accused the government of insincerity and charged
that ``what the government and the military establishment sought to
lay down was a trap that played on the good faith of the leaders of
the revolutionary movement.''
   About five members of the Communist Party's Central Committee
and dozens of its regional leaders were captured by the military in
raids after the 60-day cease-fire lapsed in February 1987.
   On Sunday, the rebels' southern Luzon command said it was
agreeable to peace talks in principle but claimed the government
was setting unacceptable conditions.
   In a related development, police said two men who claimed to be
communist guerrillas barged into a government office on Monday in
Lucena, 60 miles southeast of Manila, and shot dead city councilor
Donaldo Alfaro, 54.
   Alfaro belonged to a government group organized to help the
military curb rebel infiltration of local neighborhoods.
   Arnel Sandoval, spokesman of the Alex Boncayao Brigade,
justified the guerrillas' continuing attacks on police, soldiers
and government officials by claiming the government failed to
prosecute ``notorious police and military human rights violators.''
   The brigade is a Manila-based unit of the rebel army that has
claimed responsibility for killing more than 100 police, soldiers
and officials during the past year.
   In Bulacan province, police Monday arrested two suspected rebels
who killed a policeman a day earlier in Baliwag, just north of
Manila.
   A gunman Monday fatally shot Vice Mayor Daud Talib on the island
of Jolo, about 600 miles south of Manila, police said.
   The area is a stronghold of Moslem separatist guerrillas.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0011 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0035EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u p AM-CVN--AthenianMiracle 2ndLd-Writethru a0859 07-19 0813</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-CVN--Athenian Miracle, 2nd Ld-Writethru, a0859,800</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>Eds: INSERT 19th graf with Jackson not presenting transition issue
during meeting bgng ``Sources said...</NOTE>
<HEAD>An AP News Analysis</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JONATHAN WOLMAN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   On the Sabbath, at Salem Baptist Church, the Rev.
Jesse Jackson considered the week to come and led a crowd of 1,300
in a chant that had become his convention rallying cry. ``Never
surrender,'' he implored. ``Never surrender.''
   That was Sunday.
   On Monday the convention dawned and Jackson unveiled a new, more
conciliatory chorus. He did not surrender, but with the gavel about
to fall, he faced reality and _ to use Michael Dukakis' language _
agreed to let the quarterback call the plays.
   Following the unity news conference between Dukakis and Jackson,
Jackson led 2,000 supporters and delegates in quite a different
cadence: ``Discipline, Details, Hope.''
   The summit allowed both men to declare victory, and for once
Dukakis got in the final word.
   Jackson, looking ahead to Wednesday night's presidential roll
call, could not yet endorse Dukakis, explaining gracefully, almost
sorrowfully, ``I'm still looking for a Chicago miracle.'' Dukakis'
gentle rejoinder: ``I don't think we're going to have a Chicago
miracle ... we're going to have an Athenian miracle.''
   Actually, it was something of a miracle to finally see these two
fellows together after more than a month of Jackson's patented
``creative tension.''
   As expected, precious little was being said publicly about
Monday's meeting.
   Were Dukakis and Jackson chatting friendly-like about the
American dream and the need for Democratic unity, as Dukakis
suggested, or were they simply splitting up the spoils of
Democratic patronage? Either way, Dukakis said, ``There's no deal.''
   No deal is a good deal for Dukakis. Maybe it's even true _
although that seems farfetched. Jackson provided only one hint of
his meeting-of-the-minds with Dukakis, saying ``When the Democratic
National Committee meets on Friday, it will be more reflective of
the new Democratic Party.''
   Jackson has said _ maybe a dozen times a day for the last few
days _ that he wanted equity and ``shared responsibility'' with
Dukakis. To put flesh on the bone, his aides put a handful of
demands on the table, according to reliable party sources who
declined to be identified by name.
   The sources described several of the Jackson requests as pretty
routine stuff: A greater role at the DNC. An expense-paid presence
during the fall campaign. New language on some platform planks.
   ``If the man's got to travel, we're not going to let him fly
commercial,'' said Joseph Warren, a longtime Dukakis supporter who
has been involved in the negotiations. ``Make no mistake about it.
What Jesse needs, Jesse will get.''
   But then there was the explosive issue of transition guarantees.
Jackson negotiators want the Dukakis team to hire Jackson
supporters for a hefty number of positions in the transition effort
should Dukakis be elected in November. How many? One source
shrugged and said, perhaps in joking, ``Half?''
   Said Jackson: ``It's not right to be in the seats on the floor
tonight and not in the budget next January.''
   This might not sit well with many American voters who will want
to think they are pulling the lever for Dukakis-Bentsen in November.
   ``Is Jesse Jackson going to call the shots? If he is, there are
a lot of Americans who aren't going to vote for this ticket,'' said
Republican strategist Ed Rollins on Monday.
   Michael Dukakis knows George Bush could make hay with an
agreement to share the transition with Jackson. Bush would never
mention the Dukakis-Bentsen ticket; he'd call it the
Dukakis-Jackson ticket at his first campaign stop in the morning
and he'd add a last stop in the evening to do it again. He'd say,
I'll tell you who's going to set up a Bush administration _ me.
   Sources said Jackson did not present the transition issue in the
face-to-face meeting; he knew, surely, that whether or not the
Jackson demands were routine or outrageous, Dukakis could not be
seen as giving in to them. He needs to exhibit leadership, not
timidity _ it's a fact of life as the campaign moves from the
Democratic convention to the general election campaign.
   Oddly enough, Jackson probably was in no particular hurry to
sign onto a public deal with Dukakis anyway. He has 1,100 partisans
at this convention, many of them more ideologically motivated than
he, and bargaining for spoils is not exactly something Jackson
wants to explain.
   A deal. No way, suggested Jackson. Using the same words he did
in 1984 as he headed for a platform fight, he said on Monday: ``If
you negotiate away your self respect, you lose before you get to
the floor. We can afford to lose a vote. We cannot afford to lose
our self-respect.''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>EDITOR'S NOTE </NOTE>
<TEXT>
   Jonathan Wolman is assistant bureau chief for
the Associated Press in Washington.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0012 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0209EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-ToyPistol     07-19 0162</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Toy Pistol,0165</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Woman Realizes Pistol Is Fake, Hits Robber With Stapler</HEAD>
<DATELINE>PITTSBURGH (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   When dry cleaning shop owner Janet Castiglione
realized the robber shooting at the ceiling Monday was firing a
harmless cap gun, she got in a few licks of her own.
   She hit the man repeatedly on the face and shoulders with a
stapler before he fled.
   ``I was fed up,'' said Ms. Castiglione, 48, who has been robbed
before. ``And when he shot the gun and I realized it was a cap gun,
I became very angry.''
   The man brandishing what looked like a real revolver entered the
R.J. Valet Cleaners in downtown Pittsburgh shortly after noon. Ms.
Castiglione said the man demanded money and began firing the cap
gun.
   She pounded on him with the stapler, but when she slammed the
cash register shut, some bills flew into the air. The man grabbed
between $30 and $50 and fled, escaping in a car, she said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0013 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0208EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w PM-US-Gulf Bjt   07-19 0642</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-US-Gulf, Bjt,630</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Iranian Move Could Lead to Reduction in US Gulf Presence</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By GEORGE GEDDA</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The prospect of an end to the Iran-Iraq war is
raising the possibility that the United States will be able to
reduce its military presence in the Persian Gulf, administration
officials say.
   White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater alluded to that
possibility Monday after Iran agreed to accept a United Nations
resolution calling for a cease-fire in its eight-year war with Iraq.
   ``We have always said that as hostilities end and as the war
ends, we were willing to consider a withdrawal,'' Fitzwater told
reporters in Santa Barbara, Calif., where President Reagan is on a
weeklong vacation.
   Undersecretary of State Michael Armacost spoke in a similar vein
last week when he said the U.S. presence will revert to more
``normal and traditional levels'' as tensions in the area abate.
   It was just a year ago this week that the U.S. Navy began
escorting Kuwaiti tankers operating as American flag vessels in the
gulf, the key element of what has been a substantial U.S. military
buildup in the waterway.
   According to official figures, the number of U.S. military
personnel in the region has increased from 2,000 to more than
15,000, while Navy ships now total 27, compared with six less than
three years ago.
   The deployment has stirred intense controversy in Congress and
elsewhere, particularly after the extensive loss of lives in two
instances of mistaken identity. When an Iraqi jet fired on the USS
Stark in May 1987, 37 U.S. servicemen were killed. And 290
passengers died on July 3 when a U.S. warship shot down an Iranian
civilian aircraft.
   As a show of regret, Iraq offered to pay compensation following
the Stark incident, and the United States did the same after the
downing of the Iranian plane.
   The American commitment to the gulf has been costly in other
ways. The deployment has forced the United States to postpone ship
overhauls and to reduce some forces normally assigned elsewhere,
including Western Europe.
   Both Fitzwater and State Department deputy spokeswoman Phyllis
Oakley called the Iranian acceptance of the U.N. resolution a
``major breakthrough'' that opens the way for an end to what has
been the longest running large-scale war of the 20th century.
   They also said the Iranian decision could restore stability to
the gulf region.
   But Fitzwater said U.S. officials ``don't have a reading with
any real definition'' on Iran's intentions, and he cautioned that
ending the war ``is not going to occur overnight.''
   An end to the conflict would remove one of three impediments to
a more normal relationship between the United States and Iran.
Diplomatic ties were broken in April 1980 during the Iran hostage
crisis, five months before the Iran-Iraq war broke out.
   The other conditions the State Department has said are necessary
for a friendlier relationship are the release of the Americans
being held hostage by pro-Iranian militants in Lebanon and an end
to Iran's alleged promotion of international terrorism.
   Iranian officials have made several inquiries of the United
States in recent months about improving diplomatic ties but the
Reagan administration has not followed up on them except to ask
whether the overtures were made by officials in positions of
authority. Secretary of State George P. Shultz has said no response
has been received.
   U.S. officials, speaking only on condition of anonymity, said
Iran apparently decided to accept a cease-fire because of the
country's declining economy and fading popular support for
continuation of the war.
   Beyond that, Iraqi troops have scored major gains in recent
months, leaving the forces of the two sides deployed roughly along
the international border of the two countries. The officials said
this would enable the combatants to reach a final settlement
without either being forced to surrender territory to the other.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0014 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0232EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p PM-Bush-Meese     07-19 0694</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Bush-Meese,690</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Bush Aides Say Meese Ethics Report Won't Hurt Politically</HEAD>
<HEAD>With PM-Meese Bjt</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By TOM RAUM</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Independent counsel James McKay's conclusion
that Attorney General Edwin Meese III probably violated tax and
conflict-of-interest laws won't hurt George Bush politically, a top
aide to the vice president says.
   ``I wouldn't go as far as to say it's a dead issue, but it's not
going to be a central concern, in my judgment, when voters go vote
in November,'' Bush's campaign manager, Lee Atwater, said Monday.
   Bush aides contend that, for all practical purposes, Meese
ceased to be a major political liablity for the vice president, the
certain Republican presidential nominee, when Meese on July 6
announced he would resign.
   Bush, troubled by the accusations against Meese, previously had
sought to make ethics in government a major campaign theme, calling
for a tougher conflict-of-interest standard for all officials.
   However, the vice president had insisted he would not comment on
the Meese matter until the release of McKay's report.
   When that report was delivered on Monday, the vice president was
not available for comment. He was in a remote part of Wyoming on a
4{-day fishing trip with Treasury Secretary James A. Baker III that
began on Saturday.
   Speaking on Bush's behalf, Atwater said of the newly released
report: ``It's not going to have anything to do with this
election.''
   McKay concluded that Meese probably willfully filed a false
income tax return, failed to pay taxes on time and broke a criminal
conflict-of-interest law. The independent counsel said he would not
seek criminal charges against the attorney general, however.
   Meanwhile in Atlanta, one of Meese's more outspoken Democratic
critics in Congress said he didn't believe McKay's report would
have any effect on Michael Dukakis' candidacy.
   ``I don't think there is any partisan advantage or should there
be a partisan advantage,'' said Sen. Carl Levin, D-Mich., whose
Senate governmental oversight subcommittee investigated Meese's
involvement with the scandal-plagued Wedtech Corp.
   ``I don't think Meese is a partisan issue. Republicans called
for his resignation as well as Democrats,'' said Levin, who was
attending the Democratic National Convention.
   Bush in the past has said that the attorney general should be
held to ``a high ethical standard'' and that he found some of the
allegations against Meese particularly troubling.
   A Bush campaign aide who spoke on the condition of anonymity
said Meese, by resigning, took away the McKay report as a campaign
issue. The official said Bush hadn't been bombarded by questions on
Meese since the attorney general announced he would step down.
   Before then, Bush had been asked at nearly every campaign stop
whether Meese should resign.
   When Meese announced he would step down as attorney general and
said he was vindicated by McKay's report, Bush said in a terse
statement: ``Ed did the right thing and I wish him well.''
   Atwater said Bush would deliver a major speech on ethics in
government within the next few weeks. ``I don't want to upstage him
on it. The speech isn't complete.''
   Campaign sources said Bush's ethics proposals, long in the
works, had been delayed to await the McKay report.
   In the past, Bush has said the new code he will outline ``will
help us avoid the excesses of the past.''
   ``People should come to Washington to serve, not to profit,''
the vice president said in a recent campaign appearance. ``When a
congressman goes bad, or a member of the executive branch betrays
the public trust, you know and I know that it hurts.''
   Before Meese announced his plans to resign, two top Bush
campaign aides _ pollster Robert Teeter and former communications
director Peter Teeley _ said publicly that the attorney general had
become a major campaign liability for Bush.
   Bush campaign aides said they had not heard from the presumptive
Republican presidential candidate since before he began the fishing
trip.
   ``He must be catching a lot of fish,'' Bush spokeswoman Sheila
Tate said.
   He planned reappear on Wednesday _ the next-to-last day of the
Democratic convention _ with campaign appearances in the Detroit
area, and also was to campaign daily at least through Sunday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0015 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0232EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w PM-OilWastes     07-19 0598</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Oil Wastes,600</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>EPA Said To Bow To Political Pressure In Oil Wastes Ruling</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JENNIFER DIXON</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Environmental Protection Agency relied on
``solely political reasons'' to reject a staff recommendation that
some oil and gas drilling wastes be more strictly regulated, an
agency employee says.
   ``Politics overrode science and we've never done that before,''
said Hugh Kaufman, assistant to the EPA's director of the hazardous
site control division.
   ``This is the first time in the history of environmental
regulation of hazardous wastes that the EPA has exempted a powerful
industry from regulation for solely political reasons, despite a
scientific determination of the hazardousness of the wastes,'' he
said in an interview.
   Kaufman and another staff member, who spoke on condition of
anonymity, said Sens. Lloyd Bentsen, D-Texas, Phil Gramm, R-Texas,
and Don Nickles, R-Okla., pressured the agency, as did the Interior
and Energy departments and some states.
   EPA administrators deny their call was swayed by political
pressure.
   The majority of an EPA working group that studied the issue had
recommended that a small volume of drilling wastes come under
stringent regulation as hazardous.
   But EPA Administrator Lee Thomas and J. Winston Porter, EPA's
assistant administrator for solid waste and emergency response,
said in a June 30 report to Congress they had decided that all oil
and gas drilling wastes would remain exempt from hazardous waste
rules.
   Porter said it was ``certainly a close call ... not an easy
decision,'' but that his ``conscience is clear.''
   So-called ``associated wastes'' account for 1 percent of the
total volume of drilling wastes but contain highly toxic materials
such as benzene, heavy metals and corrosive acids that are
regulated as hazardous in other industries, the EPA staff said. It
concluded the wastes pose a threat to the environment if not
handled properly and that states are largely doing a poor job of
enforcing existing regulations.
   A draft staff report said the cost to the industry to regulate
those materials as hazardous wastes would have ranged from $200
million to $500 million a year.
   ``However, relative to total production and the total volume of
product, the overall impacts on the industry should not be unduly
burdensome,'' the report said.
   ``It would have been a fly in the economic health of that
industry,'' said Kaufman, a frequent public critic of top-level
agency decisions. Kaufman and officials responding to his
accusations spoke in interviews last week.
   Porter agreed with the staff position that many states do not
adequately regulate drilling wastes, but said another layer of
regulation was not the answer. Hazardous waste laws can be
inflexible and are not necessarily appropriate for the nation's
hundreds of thousands of oil and gas wells, he said.
   Porter wrote Thomas that although the working group had wanted
to regulate the low-volume wastes as hazardous, ``we now feel that
removing any portion of the exemption would be too disruptive and
burdensome to both the regulated industry and the regulating
agencies.''
   Gramm spokesman Larry Neal said the costs would have posed a
huge economic burden on an industry staggered by three years of low
prices. Of the senator's push against the regulations, Neal said:
``If we'd do it again tomorrow, we'd do it just as strong.''
   Bentsen, tapped by Democratic presidential candidate Michael
Dukakis to be his running mate, said the EPA's decision was ``by
and large sound, though there are some areas that may require
further clarification and explanation.''
   Nickles said additional regulations would have hurt people
``already on their backs economically'' and that states are doing a
decent job.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0016 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0233EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w PM-Estuaries     07-19 0305</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Estuaries,300</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>EPA Names Six Sensitive Coastal Areas For Study</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JENNIFER DIXON</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Environmental Protection Agency has added
six major estuaries to a list of ecologically sensitive coastal
areas targeted for study on ways to improve their health and clean
them up.
   Placed on the list Monday were Galveston Bay, Texas; Delaware
Bay and Delaware Inland Bay, Del.; the New York-New Jersey Harbor;
Sarasota Bay, Fla.; and Santa Monica Bay, Calif.
   Estuaries _ where rivers meet the sea, and fresh water mixes
with salt water _ serve as the principal spawning grounds and
nurseries for at least two-thirds of the nation's commercial
fisheries and are home to valuable and diverse species of fish,
shellfish and wildlife, the EPA said.
   They also are sources of ``irreplaceble recreation and aesthetic
enjoyment,'' the agency said.
   ``Estuaries are clearly in trouble, threatened by toxic and
bacterial contamination, industrial and municipal sewage
discharges, agricultural runoff, oxygen-depleted waters and loss of
fish and wildlife habitat,'' said EPA regional administrator Robert
E. Layton Jr. in Dallas.
   Under the National Estuary Program, the bay studies are designed
to come up with recommendations for long-term strategies for
pollution control and resource management, EPA officials said.
   EPA spokesman Dave Ryan said the studies, which can take as long
as five years, are a joint effort of the agency and state and local
officials, with states contributing 25 percent of the costs.
   The estuary program was established as part of the Water Quality
Act of 1987 to identify and protect significant estuaries.
   A dozen estuaries are targeted for priority in the program,
including the six named Monday. The other six were included in the
program last year _ Albemarle-Pamlico Sound, N.C.; Buzzards Bay,
Mass., Long Island Sound, N.Y., Narragansett Bay, R.I.; Puget
Sound, Wash.; and San Francisco Bay.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0017 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0233EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w PM-US-EgyptAid     07-19 0414</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-US-Egypt Aid,400</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Effectiveness of U.S. Aid To Egypt Questioned</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By CARL HARTMAN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Two government reports question the
effectiveness of U.S. assistance to Egypt and cast doubt on whether
the aid has brought about policy changes sought by the Reagan
administration.
   A General Accounting Office study of U.S. aid to seven
countries, of which Egypt is the most populous, concluded that the
Agency for International Development has had ``mixed success'' in
encouraging foreign policy reforms.
   Another report, from AID Inspector General Hebert L. Beckington,
criticized the use of $1.5 billion worth of machinery and equipment
sent to Egypt between 1975 and 1986.
   Egypt got $819.7 million in ``economic support funds'' from the
United States in fiscal 1987, second only to Israel.
   AID spokesman Timothy O'Leary said Monday that $115 million of
the aid was transferred in cash to the government of President
Hosni Mubarak. Most of the rest was spent on projects designed to
raise the country's standard of living.
   The GAO report said the cash transfer to Egypt was based on a
document that described broad policy changes that the U.S.
government expected from Egypt but gave no details on how progress
would be measured.
   The report, dated June 29 and made public this month, added that
while the document listed Egyptian policy reforms since the
previous transfer, it did not explain their meaning or how they
related to what the United States sought.
   ``Egypt has not moved quickly enough to adopt the economic
reforms necessary to address the numerous and costly inefficiencies
that pervade the Egyptian economy,'' it said.
   The State Department, in a comment included in the GAO report,
said there are countries where setting reform targets in advance
will fuel political opposition on the grounds that foreigners are
dominating economic policy.
   ``In some situations a less specific economic reform program ...
may be preferable to a highly specific program with unrealistic
expectations,'' Eugene J. McAllister, assistant secretary of state
for economic affairs, stated in the report.
   The AID report on Egypt's use of U.S.-financed machinery and
equipment blamed the inability of the Egyptian government, AID and
contractors to coordinate procurement with actual construction.
   ``Large amounts were either not being used or used at levels
much below what was anticipated,'' the report said of the equipment.
   The report, issued about the same time as the GAO document, also
cited ``the limited capability of government of Egypt entities to
operate and maintain machinery and equipment.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0018 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0234EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w PM-StrattonProfile     07-19 0828</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Stratton Profile,830</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Stratton: A Career Devoted to Strengthening Defense</HEAD>
<HEAD>With PM-Stratton Retires</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By KIM I. MILLS</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   New York Democratic Rep. Samuel S. Stratton
devoted his 30-year congressional career to working for a stronger
defense, but it wasn't until a Republican administration came into
power that he saw his hawkish philosophy return to political vogue.
   ``I think that a lot of the difficulties that we have today on
the subject of defense (are) primarily a matter of a generation
gap,'' he once said. ``Those of us who ... watched the rise of
Hitler recognize that military power is something that is very
necessary to protect a free society. Costly and dangerous, but
absolutely necessary.''
   Stratton strongly backed the Vietnam War and believed the United
States should have made a firmer commitment there. After the war,
when defense became politically unpopular, Stratton stuck to his
guns, going so far as to become the only Yankee among the ``boll
weevils,'' a group of Southern Democrats in Congress pushing for
stronger defense.
   ``I've found in the last couple of terms that whenever I'm
trying to get support on a particular measure, like not withdrawing
troops from Korea or providing a more active response to the
hostage situation, it was usually the Southerners who would line up
in support,'' Stratton said in 1980.
   Stratton's position got a boost with the 1980 election of
President Reagan as federal spending shifted toward military
buildup after years of what the New York Democrat considered
overemphasis on social spending.
   Stratton's son-in-law announced Monday that the 71-year-old
congressman, a long-time asthma sufferer, won't seek a 16th term.
The family spokesman, Roger Mott, cited Stratton's health.
   Throughout his career, Stratton has favored most proposed
increases in defense spending and new weapons systems, including
the B1 bomber, MX missile and neutron bomb. He was a leading
congressional opponent of a nuclear freeze proposal and has been
wary of arms control agreements.
   But he considers himself a middle-of-the-road Democrat, and has
voted for such ``liberal'' causes as a national minimum welfare
payment, against an anti-busing amendment to the Constitution and,
more recently, for economic sanctions against the South African
government.
   ``The liberals think I'm too conservative and the conservatives
think I'm too liberal,'' he once said.
   But Stratton's defense positions have overshadowed his other
work in Congress. Perhaps Stratton's biggest disappointment was in
never achieving his ambition to be chairman of the House Armed
Services Committee.
   In 1984, the Democratic Caucus voted out the armed services
committee's elderly chairman, Rep. Melvin Price, D-Ill., but chose
the much younger and less senior Rep. Les Aspin, D-Wis., over
Stratton, who was then the second-ranking Democrat.
   In 1986, Stratton was among those who opposed Aspin as the
caucus voted not to make him chairman again. However, Aspin won the
chair back in 1987, and Stratton had to content himself with
heading the subcommittee on procurement and military nuclear
systems.
   Because of his role in procurement, Stratton was among those
congressmen recently rumored to be targets of the ongoing Pentagon
probe. He has not been charged with any crime, however, and has
denied any involvement in the investigation.
   Stratton was born in 1916 in Yonkers, N.Y. He attended school in
Rochester and Schenectady, N.Y., and graduated from the University
of Rochester. He holds masters degrees from Haverford College and
Harvard University.
   He was commissioned as an ensign in the Naval Reserve in 1942,
and served in the South Pacific during World War II as a naval
combat intelligence officer on the staff of Gen. Douglas MacArthur.
He was twice awarded the Bronze Star and retired from the Naval
Reserve at the rank of captain.
   A former mayor of Schenectady, Stratton was first elected to
Congress in 1958. He was the first Democrat since 1916 to be sent
to Congress from what was then New York's 32nd Congressional
District. Despite several redistrictings by the Republicans to
force him out, Stratton has returned to Congress with ease every
two years from what is now the 23rd Congressional District. He has
been dean of the New York delegation since 1978.
   As Schenectady mayor in the 1950s, Stratton fulfilled a campaign
promise to clean up the city by leading a police raid on a gambling
den in the shadow of City Hall. He also sparked an investigation
that led to the resignation of the police chief. But because the
pay from his official post was small, Stratton supplemented his
income by becoming an announcer and newscaster for several local
radio and television stations. He also appeared on TV as the
character ``Sagebrush Sam,'' who dressed as a cowboy and played
harmonica.
   In 1962, Stratton attempted to shift his focus to statewide
politics, seeking the gubernatorial nomination. But party leaders
gave the nod to then-U.S. Attorney Robert Morgenthau.
   In 1964, Stratton thought he had a better shot at U.S. senator,
but his effort was thwarted when Robert F. Kennedy entered the fray.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0019 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0237EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w PM-Meese-WarofWords     07-19 0675</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Meese-War of Words,650</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>End of Meese Investigation Looses War of Words</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By DAVID BRISCOE</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Attorney General Edwin Meese III has nothing
but angry words for a $1.7 million investigation into his ethics
that he believes both vindicates him and will allow him to ask the
government to pay his legal fees.
   Independent counsel James McKay ended a 14-month investigation
of Meese by issuing a lengthy report Monday while making no formal
charges. But the report precipitated an immediate war of words
between Meese and his lawyers and McKay.
   After court personnel handed out 6-inch-thick piles of documents
to more than 100 journalists who had waited in line as long as 2{
hours at the federal court building, the combatants began a string
of news conferences at the National Press Club.
   Meese lawyer Nathan Lewin compared McKay to a ``hit-and-run''
driver for accusing the attorney general of crimes and then running
away from filing charges.
   ``It was a cheap shot,'' Lewin said.
   He called the investigation ``a total bust, a colossal blunder''
and scoffed at the prosecutor's 814-page report, downplaying the
length of his own filing which was nearly as thick but printed on
only one side of each page.
   Lewin said his rebuttal, with sections titled ``Fishing in
Foreign Policy Water,'' ``The Empty Net'' and ``Procrastination is
not Willfulness,'' was more readable than McKay's.
   Lewin accused McKay of stretching statutes ``beyond what any
reasonable prosecutor would do,'' of trying to make an Iraqi
pipeline project look like ``the opening of a McDonald's franchise
in Baghdad'' and of making groundless accusations to justify the
high cost of his fruitless investigation.
   An hour later, McKay held his own news conference and repeated
for television cameras the accusations made against Meese in his
report: that Meese filed a false tax return, missed a tax filing
deadline and dealt with two separate matters that might affect the
telephone industry while holding stock in a local telephone company.
   In addition, McKay accused Meese, both in the report and at the
news conference, of insensitivity in dealings as a government
official with his close friend, E. Robert Wallach.
   But McKay said he was using his ``prosecutorial discretion'' not
to bring formal charges against Meese because such offenses
ordinarily would not lead to prosecution of a person who was not
attorney general.
   He said neither Meese nor his wife, Ursula, had a history of tax
evasion and he had no evidence that the attorney general took any
of the illegal actions for personal gain or that he deliberately
lied.
   McKay defended the high cost of the investigation. ``I didn't
spend it personally,'' he quipped. ``I feel confident we have not
wasted any government funds, any of the taxpayers' money.''
   Asked how he would respond to a lawsuit from Meese if one were
filed, he said, ``I've been sued before.''
   Finally, Meese strode into the same hall where McKay had just
appeared, angrily defending all his actions _ and attacking McKay.
   ``I'm glad that finally the long ordeal is over,'' Meese said.
``But I'm outraged at the tarnishing of our system of justice that
has gone on this afternoon and with the filing of this report by
the independent counsel.
   ``I am appalled that James McKay came in front of you and
violated every principle of fairness and decency.''
   ``I've always acted legally, ethically and properly,'' Meese
said, ``and any implication by the independent counsel that I have
in any way violated any law is absolutely false.''
   Meese said it went against the American judicial system for a
court official to publicly accuse someone of a crime and then not
file charges.
   ``If anybody did that in the Justice Department, they'd be
fired,'' he said.
   Meese said he would not disclose whether he would take any legal
action against McKay, but he said he would ask the government to
pay his legal expenses which lawyer Lewin said were approaching
$250,000 six months ago. Meese said he didn't know how much the
total bill would be.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0020 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0237EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-Reagan     07-19 0724</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Reagan,700</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Reagan Remains Pleased With Meese</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By MERRILL HARTSON</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>SANTA BARBARA, Calif. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   President Reagan still feels Edwin
Meese III has been ``an outstanding attorney general'' despite an
independent counsel's finding that Meese likely violated tax and
conflict-of-interest statutes.
   White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater told reporters Monday
that Reagan believes Meese ``will be able to look back with great
satisfaction on the contributions he has made to the Justice
Department and to the administration of justice in general.''
   Reagan, who is vacationing with his wife, Nancy, at the couple's
secluded ranch in the Santa Ynez Mountains, has never wavered in
his support of his longtime California adviser and political
confidant.
   And the voluminous report by independent counsel James McKay,
which said Meese conceivably could have been prosecuted on a number
of matters, did not change the president's thinking.
   ``The president is pleased that, after extensive scrutiny, the
independent counsel did not charge the attorney general with any
criminal wrongdoing,'' Fitzwater told reporters at a briefing at an
oceanfront hotel.
   His remarks closely paralleled the statement that Reagan made in
behalf Meese earlier this month when the attorney general
pronounced himself vindicated because he was not indicted and
announced he was resigning, effective in late July or early August.
   The Reagan White House seemed taken aback by Meese's
announcement, even though it said the attorney general had alerted
Reagan months earlier to the fact he did not plan to remain until
the end of the administration next January.
   Reagan subsequently nominated former Pennsylvania Gov. Richard
Thornburgh as Meese's replacement, and the administration has said
it hopes Thornburgh can be confirmed easily by the Senate. There
have been no immediate problems on Capitol Hill, although the
confirmation hearings remain to be held.
   In the lengthy report released Monday, McKay said Meese probably
violated the law in the sense that the attorney general failed to
file his income tax form on time in 1985 and that the report failed
to disclose a substantial capital gains income by the attorney
general.
   McKay also concluded that Meese likely could have been
prosecuted for a violation of federal conflict-of-interest statutes
for taking part in meetings regarding the telephone industry while
still holding $14,000 in regional Bell telephone stock.
   Fitzwater said White House officials were in the process of
reviewing the McKay report, but he said Meese and his attorneys had
released a document ``which refutes the issues at hand.''
   Asked whether the McKay report in effect cast a new legal cloud
over Meese, the spokesman said, ``The attorney general has filed a
lengthy statement saying no.''
   Without commenting specifically on the Meese matter, Thornburgh,
on the day his nomination was announced by Reagan on July 5, said
he would follow such a case wherever the evidence leads.
   There have been widespread reports that Meese is prepared to
join the conservative-oriented Heritage Foundation, a research
organization, after he leaves office. There also have been reports
that he might become a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution in
Palo Alto, Calif., a similarly conservative think tank.
   While Reagan was defending Meese through his spokesman Monday,
the White House announced the resignation of a close associate of
recently resigned chief of staff Howard H. Baker Jr.
   Fitzwater said Reagan had accepted the resignation of Dan
Crippen, an economics adviser who is returning to private life.
   The spokesman said Crippen ``has been an integral part of the
president's economic team, playing an important role in many major
issues, including the trade bill, budget matters and general
economic planning.''
   He sought to minimize speculation that there is an exodus of
Baker associates from the White House, noting that the current
chief of staff, Kenneth Duberstein, is a close Baker friend.
   Both Baker and White House communications director Thomas C.
Griscom, who had been Baker's spokesman for years during Baker's
days in the Senate, resigned last month.
   Baker said he was leaving for personal reasons, including the
health problems of his wife, Joy. Griscom said he wanted to accept
a position at the University of Tennessee-Chattanooga.
   Duberstein will hold a high-level meeting of senior Reagan aides
here Thursday.
   ``It's just a planning meeting by the senior staff to go over
the last six months, to talk about agenda and themes, issues,
campaign activities, all those kinds of things,'' Fitzwater said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0021 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0238EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w PM-Meese-Ursula'sJob     07-19 0597</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Meese-Ursula's Job,590</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>McKay Cites Possible `Ulterior Motives' By Meese Associates</HEAD>
<HEAD>With PM-Meese Bjt</HEAD>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A 14-month investigation into the financial
dealings of Edwin Meese III concluded that a real estate magnate
and a confidant of the attorney general ``may have had ulterior
motives'' in helping arrange a $40,000-a-year salary for Meese's
wife.
   Independent counsel James McKay, in the final report on his
investigation, also said he found no evidence to show that Meese
``was aware of such motives.'' McKay, whose report was made public
Monday, brought no charges against Meese or anyone else.
   The 814-page report says that Meese confidant E. Robert Wallach
received a $200,000 loan from real estate magnate Howard Bender
this February, shortly before investigators looked into their roles
in funding a job for Ursula Meese. It was their involvement in
arranging Mrs. Meese's salary on which McKay questioned their
motives.
   In their rebuttals, attorneys for Wallach and Bender objected to
McKay's references to their clients' possible ``ulterior motives.''
   As for the loan, Bender's lawyers said Wallach said the money
was needed for his legal fees because the government had frozen his
assets. They said the loan was disclosed to the U.S. attorney and
the federal court in New York, where Wallach is under indictment
for trying to peddle his influence with Meese.
   McKay said that in return for the $200,000, Bender received a
promissory note from Wallach and a deed of trust on real property
owned by Wallach.
   A separate agreement provided that Bender would advance Wallach
``additional funds up to a total of $500,000 if a deed of trust in
the amount of $525,000 were delivered to Mr. Bender,'' McKay said.
   This was one of several new elements turned up by McKay in his
investigation of an incident in 1985 when Howard and Sondra Bender,
head of a wealthy Washington real estate family, donated $40,000
for Mrs. Meese's salary. The money was to be paid by the Multiple
Sclerosis Society, where she had previously worked as a volunteer.
   The donation coincided with efforts by a Bender real estate
partnership to renew a lucrative lease on office space in the
Chester A. Arthur Building for Justice Department agencies.
   The lease was renewed at increased rent more than a year after
the donation and the Bender partnership quickly sold the building
for 60 percent more than it had paid for it about two years earlier.
   McKay revealed that Wallach brought Mrs. Meese's desire for a
paid job to the attention of the Benders. But McKay said he turned
up no information that Meese was aware of Bender's interest in the
building or took any role in the lease renewal.
   In their rebuttal, Bender's lawyers said he had only a 10
percent to 11 percent interest in the partnership.
   ``There is no basis in the report for the conclusion ... that
Mr. Bender may have had `ulterior motives' in supporting the
November 1985 contribution to the Multiple Sclerosis Society, which
was used by that reputable charity to provide employment to Ursula
Meese,'' Bender's attorneys wrote.
   They said the Bender family foundation made the grant because
they believed in Mrs. Meese's abilities to direct development of a
job match program for MS victims.
   Wallach's attorney, George Walker, said the reference to
ulterior motives on Wallach's part is ``gratuitous and without any
factual foundation.''
   McKay also disclosed that Mrs. Meese received $15,000 in
advances on her salary in both 1985 and 1986. He said the society
had no prior history of giving such advances and she testified she
needed them to pay bills.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0022 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0238EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-China-MelonMadness     07-19 0455</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-China-Melon Madness,0467</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Chinese Loot Watermelons In Annual Summer Rite</HEAD>
<DATELINE>BEIJING (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Thousands of peasants rioted in a ripe watermelon
field and hundreds of urban dwellers looted a melon stand, official
reports said, in the latest replay of the melon madness that hits
China each summer.
   Participants in similar melon-looting sprees last summer
received heavy prison terms, and growers and sellers this year have
resorted to hiring police guards _ apparently to little avail.
   Chinese eat millions of watermelons during the summer _ nearly
at a rate of one a day per person in cities _ and some literally go
mad over them.
   In one of the latest looting incidents, about 2,000 peasants
swarmed onto a melon field in central China's Henan province and
snatched 500,000 pounds of the juicy fruit in raids July 8 and 9.
   The Legal Daily (Fazhi Ribao) on Monday carried a blurry picture
of dozens of people running through the field, grabbing melons in
both arms. It said police tried to restore order but were roughed
up by the looters.
   The growers, 25 peasants who had jointly contracted to plant the
land, ``could only put their heads down and cry in the fields,''
the national newspaper said.
   In a separate incident in northeastern China's Jilin province,
the Legal Daily said hundreds of people in Songjianghe Town looted
a melon stand over several days in early July, grabbing 60,000
pounds of melon.
   At first, the melon owner had hired ``protectors'' who fended
off thieves, but three men beat up the protectors on July 6 and
several hundred people began snatching fruit, the report said.
   Several suspected looters were arrested but all later were
released without charges, it said without elaborating.
   In last summer's most spectacular melon riot, nearly 100 melon
vendors raided a Beijing train depot where farmers had brought in
melons under contract to other vendors.
   The raiders beat up some of the farmers and made off with 55,000
pounds of the fruit. Two of the thieves were sentenced to life in
prison and six recieved two to 12 years in jail.
   Also last summer, more than 100 people in Jilin province jumped
on trucks carrying melons into the provincial capital, Jilin, and
stole 22,000 pounds. Farmers and bystanders who tried to protect
shipment were beaten.
   Beijing authorities announced measures in June to ensure an
adequate supply of melons to the city at controlled prices, partly
in hopes of heading off violent grabs for the fruit.
   They lifted the usual ban on bringing tractors and horse-drawn
carriages into the city center so that farmers could easily get the
melons to market, and set up designated melon marketplaces.
   So far, no melon violence has been reported in the capital.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0023 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0240EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w PM-Pentagon-Honduras     07-19 0285</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Pentagon-Honduras,290</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Six Americans Wounded in Honduras In Good Condition</HEAD>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The six U.S. servicemen wounded in an apparent
grenade attack in Honduras are in very good condition following the
weekend incident in which an explosive device was thrown at their
automobile, the Pentagon says.
   The Defense Department on Monday released the names of five of
six. The name of the sixth wounded man was not released because his
family has not been notified, said Maj. Kathy Wood, a Pentagon
spokeswoman.
   The names of the five, their services, home bases and hometowns
were: Elbert Whitehead, an Army specialist assigned from Fort Polk,
La., and originally from Enfield, N.C.; James Jones, Army
specialist, Fort Sam Houston, Texas, originally from Ebensburg,
Pa.; Air Force Staff Sgt. Shawn Cunningham, George Air Force Base,
originally from Cheshire, Conn.; Air Force Sgt. Michael Shea,
Keesler Air Force Base, originally from Gardena, Calif.; and Army
specialist John Monroe, Fort Bragg, N.C., originally from Spring
Lake, Mo.
   Monroe was treated and released Sunday and the other five were
said to be in ``very good condition'' at the Palmerola Air Base in
Honduras.
   The six were wounded in the parking lot of the Confetti
discotheque in San Pedro Sula, 125 miles north of the capital of
Tegucigalpa. The disco is frequented by U.S. military personnel.
   Wood said no one had claimed responsibility for the attack.
   Earlier reports said four men had been wounded, but doctors at
Palmerola said another man was hit by sharpnel and a sixth had
injured an ankle.
   The wounded men were among 150 servicemen on a one-day
recreation leave from Palmerola. Following the incident, all were
recalled to the air base as a precaution, Wood said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0024 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0111EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w AM-IntelsatCase     07-19 0221</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Intelsat Case,230</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Former No. 2 Executive Arrested In Aruba</HEAD>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The former second-ranking executive at the
global satellite communications network Intelsat was arrested in
Aruba last week and charged with conspiracy to defraud the
organization of $3.8 million, according to a criminal complaint
unsealed Monday in federal court.
   Jose L. Algrett, fired as deputy director general of Intelsat in
December 1986, is the fourth person to be charged in a scheme that
allegedly defrauded Intelsat of $5.4 million through a combination
of unauthorized payments, bid-rigging, kickbacks and phony
commissions.
   The scheme, said to have been carried out between April 1984 and
September 1986, revolved around the construction and financing of
the second phase of the new Intelsat headquarters in Washington.
   Algrett had been living in since January 1987 in Venezuela. He
had sporadic talks with prosecutors and FBI agents aimed at a plea
agreement, but the talks reportedly broke off last month.
   When Algrett travelled to Aruba to meet with a U.S. agent, he
was arrested by Aruban authorities and put on a plane for Miami,
where he was arrested by the FBI.
   He was being held without bond pending a hearing Thursday before
a U.S. magistrate.
   Intelsat, the International Telecommunications Satellite
Organization, is a consortium of 114 member countries that develops
and manages communications satellites.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0025 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0049EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i PM-Gulf-USNavy Bjt   07-19 0749</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Gulf-US Navy, Bjt,0770</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Year-Old Convoy Operation Has Reaped Mixed Results</HEAD>
<BYLINE>An AP Extra</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>By RICHARD PYLE</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>MANAMA, Bahrain (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Iran's acceptance of a U.N. cease-fire
plan comes almost exactly a year after the start of the Persian
Gulf convoy operation that led to a massive U.S. naval buildup and
armed clashes with Iranian forces.
   Navy officials said they would adopt a ``wait and see'' position
on whether, when and how the Persian Gulf-based U.S. fleet of about
17 ships would be affected, should the eight years of Iraq-Iran
hostilities indeed be ended.
   As Tehran's surprise announcement was reported by its official
Islamic Republic News Agency on Monday, the 48th U.S. Navy convoy
of 1988 and the 70th in the past year was en route up the gulf.
   A spokesman at U.S. Central Command headquarters in Tampa, Fla.,
said the U.S.-flagged Kuwaiti gas tanker Gas Princess, escorted by
the missile frigate Fahrion, had passed through the Strait of
Hormuz ``without incident.''
   Since the Stars and Stripes was first run up the mast of the
renamed supertanker Bridgeton on July 21, 1987, the U.S. Navy has
sailed 42,000 miles, nearly equivalent to twice around the equator,
protecting 11 ``reflagged'' Kuwaiti tankers from Iranian attack in
the gulf.
   For Kuwait, ``Operation Earnest Will'' has guaranteed safe
transit for millions of tons of oil products that otherwise might
not have reached customers in Europe and Japan.
   For the Navy, it has meant a grueling test of ships, sailors and
technology in a twilight war where threats range from armed
speedboats and underwater mines to fast-moving aircraft and
dangerously deceptive signals on a radar screen.
   The escort operation got off to a shaky start when the
401,382-ton Bridgeton hit a mine on the first northbound convoy. It
is now semi-retired.
   The Navy's Middle East Force, based in the gulf since 1948, grew
swiftly from about four ships to the present level, with ten more
including an aircraft carrier in a support role in the Arabian Sea.
   ``A year ago nobody would have predicted we'd have 16 or 17
ships, helicopter carriers, minesweepers, or a lot of other stuff
in the gulf,'' an officer said recently.
   Neither could it be known that the Navy would sink or damage six
Iranian vessels in a one-day missile war, or that a U.S. cruiser
would on July 3 shoot down an Iranian jetliner, killing 290 people.
The Pentagon said the cruiser mistook the jetliner for an F-14
fighter jet.
   The incident is still being investigated.
   A second Kuwaiti tanker was knocked out of service for five
months by an Iranian missile attack on Kuwait's main oil terminal,
and U.S. forces have had at least three other significant clashes
with Iranian craft.
   About 100 commercial vessels were attacked in the past year,
many while sailing to or from Kuwait, which Tehran regards as
Iraq's ally in the war. But no U.S-flagged tanker has been molested
during a Navy convoy.
   The Reagan administration said its reflagging policy reflects a
long-standing U.S. commitment to freedom of navigation and would
blunt Moscow's effort to expand its influence in the oil-rich
region.
   It has opposed a Soviet-backed proposal for a U.N. force to
replace the seven foreign navies that together have about 30
warships in the gulf.
   Congressional opponents assailed the reflagging policy as
ill-defined and risky, but Reagan backers thwarted repeated efforts
to invoke the 1973 War Powers Act, which would require U.S.
withdrawal in 90 days unless Congress agreed otherwise.
   By rough calculation, the reflagged tankers carry about 20
percent of Kuwait's total oil product exports of 600,000 barrels a
day. About a third goes to Kuwait's retail outlets in Europe, the
rest to regular customers in Europe and Japan.
   U.S. diplomats say Kuwaiti officials have expressed satsifaction
with the convoy operation and that deliveries have been smoother
since January, when the convoys were increased in frequency but
reduced in size, often to one tanker.
   The Pentagon estimates the cost of its expanded gulf force at
$20 million a month. Officials say this has been reduced since
Kuwait began providing U.S. warships with free fuel.
   Nine Americans have been killed in the gulf in the past year,
all in helicopter crashes.
   The missile frigate Samuel B. Roberts was nearly sunk by an
Iranian mine, but officers say the crew's ability to save it
validated lessons learned in the May, 1987 Stark disaster, when an
errant Iraqi missile attack killed 37 crewmen on the U.S. frigate.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0026 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0240EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w PM-MeeseReport-Excerpts     07-19 0703</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Meese Report-Excerpts,740</2ND_LINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Following are excerpts from the report of
James McKay, the independent counsel who investigated Attorney
General Edwin Meese III, and from a written response prepared by
Meese's lawyers.
</TEXT>
<BYLINE>1985 TAXES</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   From McKay's report:
   ``The independent counsel has determined from the available
evidence that a trier of fact would probably conclude beyond a
reasonable doubt that Mr. Meese violated'' federal law ``by
willfully filing a materially false tax return and that Mr. Meese
violated'' federal law ``by willfully failing to pay tax at the
time required by law.''
   McKay said he wasn't recommending prosecution, in part, because
``Mr. Meese's actions were a one-time failure to comply in full
with his tax obligation; they were not part of a pattern of
disobedience to the tax laws.''
   ``Based on the independent counsel's careful review of Mr.
Meese's tax returns from 1981 through 1986, Mr. Meese appears in
all other respects to have complied with his tax obligations. There
is certainly no rule of law, nor should there be, that excuses an
isolated violation of the tax laws. However, the absence of a
pattern of noncompliance is a factor that weighs heavily in the
taxpayer's favor in the determination whether criminal penalties
... are the preferred remedy for offenses involving one item, or
one closely related group of items, on one year's tax returns.''
   From the response of Meese's lawyers:
   ``In an effort to justify the cost of such Herculean labors, Mr.
McKay's staff ultimately seized on two matters that are said to
have been discovered in the course of the investigation, and has,
with regard to both, issued grossly unjust pronouncements. Mr.
McKay asserts that there were `probably' violations of a
conflict-of-interest law in the attorney general's conduct with
respect t certain telecommunications matters in 1985-1986 and
`probably' violations of criminal tax laws in the October 1986
filing of his personal tax return for 1985. As to each of these
matters, for a host of reasons, Mr. McKay concludes that
`prosecution is not warranted.'
   ``We agree, of course, that prosecution `is not warranted' as to
either of these two episodes. But the reason is more fudnamental
than Mr. McKay's extended discussion warrants. There is no basis
for prosecution because any responsible prosecutor would recognize
promptly that there was no criminal violation in either event.''
</TEXT>
<BYLINE>WEDTECH</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AQABA PIPELINE</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>E. ROBERT WALLACH</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   From the McKay report:
   ``During the period investigated by the independent counsel, Mr.
Meese preformed several official acts that benefited Mr. Wallach.
These included acts that assisted Wedtech and acts in furtherance
of the Aqaba pipeline project.''
   ``Mr. Meese's official acts that benefited Mr. Wallach began
with his actions that assisted Welbilt(Wedtech) when he was
counselor to the president. In 1981 and 1982, Mr. Meese facilitated
Welbilt's efforts to obtain a contract to manufacture small engines
for the Army.''
   ``In 1985, Mr. Meese took actions that substantially assisted
Mr. Wallach and others in connection with the proposed Aqaba
pipeline project.''
   But he concluded that ``The independent counsel has determined
that there is insufficient evidence to conclude that Mr. Meese
committed any such offense'' under bribery and anti-gratuity laws.
The report notes Meese admitted helping Wallach and Wedtech, the
firm he represented. But it adds ``there is no substantial evidence
that Mr. Meese was motivated to take his actions by any
consideration other than his friendship for Mr. Wallach. The
evidence does not establish that he was even aware at that time of
the nature or extent of Mr. Wallach's prospective financial
interest in the success of Wedtech.''
   From the response of Meese's lawyers:
   ``Any sturdy soul who undertakes the arduous task of reading the
entire report will see that it expressly vindicates Mr. Meese on
the allegations that initially produced the reference to Mr. Meese
_ i.e., charges relating to the Wedtech Corp. The report similarly
exonerates Mr. Meese on all the publicized allegations concerning
the investment of his family funds with W. Franklyn Chinn, on all
questions relating to whether E. Robert Wallach ever provided
unlawful benefits or gratuities to Mr. Meese, on all questions
relating to Mr. Meese's financial disclosure reports, and on the
matter of Mrs. Meese's employment with the Multiple Sclerosis
society.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0027 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0242EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w PM-TreasuryBills     07-19 0175</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Treasury Bills,160</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Interest Rates on Treasury Securities Rise</HEAD>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Interest rates on short-term Treasury
securities rose in the latest auction to the highest level since
the October stock market crash.
   The Treasury Department on Monday sold $6.7 billion in
three-month bills at an average discount rate of 6.76 percent, up
from 6.72 percent last week. Another $6.6 billion was sold in
six-month bills at an average discount rate of 7.09 percent, up
from 6.99 percent last week.
   The rates were the highest since Oct. 19, when three-month bills
sold for 6.84 percent and six-month bills averaged 7.21 percent.
   The new discount rates understate the actual return to
investors: 6.97 percent for three-month bills, with a $10,000 bill
selling for $9,829.10, and 7.45 percent for a six-month bill
selling for $9,641.60.
   In a separate report, the Federal Reserve said Monday that the
average yield for one-year Treasury bills, the most popular index
for making changes in adjustable rate mortgages, rose to 7.79
percent last week, up from 7.62 percent the previous week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0028 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0053EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u p AM-CVN--ConventionRdp 11thLd-Writethru a040igationLoosesWarofWords
07-19 1199</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-CVN--Convention Rdp, 11th Ld-Writethru, a0403, 2 Takes,</2ND_LINE>
<TEXT>
   1200-1800
</TEXT>
<HEAD>URGENT</HEAD>
<NOTE>EDS: Combines pvs</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By DAVID ESPO</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Political Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Michael Dukakis won Jesse Jackson's cooperation
if not his outright endorsement Monday as the 40th Democratic
National Convention opened with a rousing keynote call to end eight
years of Republican rule and ``get on with the future.''
   ``This election is a contest between those who are satisfied
with what they have and those who know we can do better,'' Texas
State Treasurer Ann Richards told a prime-time audience as she
kicked off the Democrats' four-day campaign rally for Dukakis and
ticketmate Lloyd Bentsen.
   ``Nothing's wrong with you, that you can't fix in November,''
she said to roars of approval.
   Dukakis would ``unify this country and get on with the future,''
said the woman with the white hair and the salty Southern accent.
But George Bush, she said in scorning the Republican opposition,
``Poor George ... he can't help it, he was born with a silver foot
in his mouth,'' she said scornfully of the Republican nominee-to-be.
   Dukakis watched the show on television in his hotel suite a few
blocks away from the Omni hall where the delegates gathered to do
his bidding. His night comes Wednesday, when the nomination is
sealed, and again Thursday, when he accepts the party's prize.
   The delegates convened a few hours after Dukakis and Jackson met
privately for more than two hours and emerged to say they had
smoothed over the disagreements that marred the pre-convention
week. Jackson is expected to campaign for the ticket this fall, and
his supporters will receive greater standing in the party as part
of the accords.
   ``We did not come here for fireworks. We came here for noble
works,'' Jackson said. Party officials said that as a result of the
unity pact with Dukakis, his supporters would receive close to half
the 25 at-large slts on the Democratic National Committee as well
as the resources to campaign on behalf of the ticket this fall.
   Unity was the official theme of the week. But network prime time
wasn't five minutes old before the lingering tensions of the
primary campaign surfaced. ``Jesse, Jesse,'' Jackson's delegates
shouted rhythmically as America began watching. ``Dukakis,
Dukakis,'' the governor's majority delegates shouted back across
the hall.
   Some Jackson delegates said even though Dukakis and Jackson were
trying to make peace, they were ready to wage war off the
convention floor, and their repeated chants were intended to be a
message.
   ``We are trying to show we still support Jesse Jackson and also
show the Democratic Party it should include us more in the power
structure,'' said delegate Bernard Parker of Detroit.
   Ms. Richards took the stage after humorist Garrison Keillor
opened the televised program by leading a group of elementary
school students in a warbling rendition of the national anthem.
``In the key of G, the people's key,'' he said with practiced wry
wit.
   Her first ovation, and it was a big one, came after Richards
ticked off a litany of Reagan administration figures who proved to
be unpopular with the Democrats.
   ``I want to announce to this nation that in a little more than
100 days, the Reagan Meese Deaver Nofziger Poindexter North
Weinberger Watt Gorsuch Lavelle Stockman Haig Bork Noriega George
Bush-era will be over,'' she said to sustained applause.
   She said, ``For eight straight years George Bush hasn't
displayed the slightest interest in anything we care about and now
that he's after a job he can't get appointed to, he's like Columbus
discovering America _ he's found child care, he's found education.''
   Dukakis telephoned Ms. Richards at the podium after her speech
to offer congratulations. ``What am I going to say on Thursday? You
said it all,'' spokesman Dayton Duncan quoted him as telling the
Texan.
   Party sources reported a gentleman's agreement on platform
disputes. Jackson agreed to withdraw 10 of 13 minority planks, and
Dukakis will ask his delegates to vote down his rival's call for
higher taxes on the wealthy and no first use of nuclear weapons.
Jackson's call for a Palestinian homeland will be debated, and is
expected to be withdrawn without a vote, the sources said.
   The convention opened as a new poll pointed to a close contest
against the Republicans. An ABC survey found Bush drawing 46
percent support to 45 percent for Dukakis nationwide. The network
said the survey had a margin of error of plus or minus five points.
   Only a fraction of the delegates were in their chairs when the
opening gavel fell, but the floor began to approach gridlock as the
parade of speakers went by. ``We're going to look good on
television,'' House Speaker Jim Wright, the convention chairman,
said as delegates danced to a video presentation by entertainer
Neil Diamond _ and that was precisely what the party's image-makers
had in mind.
   The convention cornerstone was laid at the end of the evening by
former President Carter, who urged the delegates to capture the
party's most elusive value: ``Unity, one more time, unity,'' he
exhorted.
   Jackson, beaten but unbowed after a gallant primary campaign,
set a conciliatory tone in remarks to his delegates and said he was
looking forward to helping the nominee ``win in November.''
   ``God gave this gentleman a gift and we're going to use it,''
said Joseph Warren, an aide to Dukakis.
   Jackson said he would have his name entered into nomination for
president on Wednesday night, but added he had no plans to contest
Dukakis' selection of Bentsen for vice president, and would give
``no encouragement'' to others who might.
   The accords of Atlanta provided an upbeat curtain-raiser for
Dukakis' convention.
   Party chairman Paul Kirk praised all those who lost out to
Dukakis _ or almost all. There was no mention of Gary Hart, the
long ago front-runner who twice entered the race and twice
departed. Hart was in the convention city in the role of newspaper
columnist and television commentator.
   Opening night showcased some Democrats little known on network
television and some who were instantly recognizable.
   ``My name is Jimmy Carter, and I am not running for president.
Did you hear that George?'' said the former president in a retort
that served at once as a revised version of his 1976 campaign
slogan and a jab at Republican George Bush, who likes to call
Dukakis a Jimmy Carter Democrat _ and doesn't mean it as a
compliment.
   Carter no doubt liked the convention's initial results _
acceptance of delegate credentials without a challenge for the
first time in a quarter-century.
   In her keynote address, Ms. Richards sounded the call for change
that lies at the heart of Dukakis' drive to reclaim the White House
for the Democrats.
   In a speech scripted for precisely 33 minutes, Ms. Richards
praised Dukakis, Bentsen and _ lavishly _ Jackson, and heaped scorn
on President Reagan and Vice President Bush.
   ``Jesse Jackson is a leader and a teacher who can open our
hearts and our minds and stir our very souls,'' she said. ``In
contrast,'' she said, Reagan for eight straight years ``has
pretended to us that he cannot hear our questions over the
helicopter noise.''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>MORE</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0029 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0243EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-DyingDolphins Bjt   07-19 0645</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Dying Dolphins, Bjt,0668</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Rare Dolphins Said To Be Doomed Without Fast Help</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By KATHY WILHELM</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>BEIJING (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Yangtze River dolphin is rarer than the panda
but also less famous and less cuddly and that means it may be
doomed, says visiting American dolphin trainer Ric O'Barry.
   The huggable, black-and-white visage of a panda looking out from
World Wildlife Fund advertisements around the world has helped
raise thousands of dollars to save the fewer than 1,000 pandas left
in Chinese forests.
   But there are no international fund-raising efforts to save the
200 to 300 squinty-eyed, bat-nosed river dolphins. They are dying
out as their only native home, China's Yangtze River, becomes
increasingly congested and polluted.
   That's where O'Barry comes in.
   The trainer of the world's most famous dolphin, Flipper, who
starred in a U.S. television series in the 1960s, O'Barry met last
week with Chinese dolphin experts in the central city of Wuhan. Now
he is heading back to the United States to try to launch an
emergency campaign to save the dying dolphins.
   ``They're beautiful. They're bright and very friendly,'' he said
in a telephone interview. But without quick action, he said, ``I'm
afraid these dolphins may be doomed.''
   O'Barry's Chinese colleagues were more optimistic, but agreed
speedy action is needed.
   ``The number of dolphins has reached a critical level,'' said
Liu Renjun, an associate professor at the Wuhan Institute of
Hydrobiology.
   ``The dolphins can be protected,'' he said, but only with hard
work and thousands of dollars that China lacks.
   The Yangtze River dolphins are relatives of the common dolphin
found worldwide. Like the common dolphin, they grow to more than
seven feet and have a dorsal fin. Their snouts are narrower, ``like
a small baseball bat,'' O'Barry said, and their skin is whiter.
   Both kinds rely mainly on sonar to find food and navigate _ and
this is part of the river dolphins' problem.
   The Yangtze River, long a commercial thoroughfare, has become
jammed in recent decades with boats whose engine roars confuse the
dolphins' sonar. Scientists think the hum of propellers often lures
dolphins to their death.
   Commercial fishing is depleting their food source, and many
dolphins get caught in fishermen's hooks. Industrial pollution
sickens those who survive.
   Only two exist in captivity, in a cement tank at the Wuhan
institute. There, Liu and about two dozen other researchers are
trying to learn more about river dolphins, especially how to breed
them.
   No river dolphin has ever been born in captivity.
   The team is trying to collect sperm from its 9-year-old male
dolphin to artificially inseminate a 4-year-old female Liu said is
still two or three years from sexual maturity.
   O'Barry was skeptical about the effort. He said he watched the
sperm-collecting efforts ``and they're not getting anywhere.''
   What's more, he said, the concrete tank is not conducive to
dolphin romance: ``Their sonar bounces off the walls and that's
alien to them ... and they're not used to swimming in circles.''
   O'Barry and the Chinese agree on the need to set up a sanctuary
along the Yangtze River where the dolphins can live naturally but
with special protections from fishermen and traffic.
   Liu said the institute has located a potential site upstream
from Wuhan where many river dolphins congregate naturally. The
project will cost as much as $81,000, but so far the institute has
no money.
   Another dolphin expert, Dr. Zhou Kaiya of the Nanjing Normal
University, has separately started building a large holding pond
for dolphins in the channel between two Yangtze islands futher
downstream in Anhui province.
   O'Barry was enthusiastic about both plans, and said he will ask
U.S. companies that do business in China to help underwrite them.
   He also hopes to use his old Hollywood connections to organize a
televised fundraiser for the dolphins.
   ``I think this is the last chance.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0030 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0243EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w PM-Meese-Glance     07-19 0408</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Meese-Glance,420</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>With PM-Meese Bjt</HEAD>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Here at a glance are key developments Monday
regarding the investigation of Attorney General Edwin Meese III by
independent counsel James M. McKay.
   McKAY'S CONCLUSION: Finishing a 14-month investigation, McKay
issued a report saying Meese probably broke two tax laws and twice
violated a criminal conflict-of-interest statute. However, he told
a news conference that ``I have decided that we will not
prosecute'' _ a decision ``based on prosecutorial discretion.''
   MEESE'S RESPONSE: Meese declared that he was outraged and
appalled by McKay's findings, saying that if Justice Department
lawyers had issued such a document ``they'd be fired.'' Decrying
``the tarnishing of our system of justice,'' Meese contended that
McKay had ``violated every principle of fairness and decency.''
   TAXES: McKay said in his report that ``A trier of fact would
probably conclude beyond a reasonable doubt that Mr. Meese
violated'' a section of the Internal Revenue Code by filing ``a
materially false tax return.'' He said Meese and his wife failed to
report a net capital gain of $20,706 on the sale of $54,581 in
securities in 1985.
   McKay also said Meese probably also violated a section of the
Internal Revenue Code for ``willfully failing to pay tax at the
time required by law.''
   CONFLICT-OF-INTEREST: According to McKay, Meese probably
violated the conflict-of-interest law in connection with his
holdings of $14,000 in regional Bell telephone stock. Meese owned
the stock in 1985 and 1986, when he set in motion a review process
that led to a reversal of Justice Department policy on the regional
Bell companies.
   McKay also found that Meese participated in discussions of
proposed legislation to shift regulatory responsibility for the
breakup of AT&T from a federal court and the Justice Department to
the Federal Communications Commission.
   CONGRESSIONAL REACTION: Sen. Strom Thurmond of South Carolina,
ranking Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee, said, ``It
appears from the special counsel's report the attorney general did
not exercise good judgment in a number of instances. The attorney
general has announced his pending resignation and I hope ... this
report finally puts this matter to rest.''
   Sen. Carl Levin, D-Mich., chairman of a Senate subcommittee that
investigated Meese's involvement in the Wedtech scandal, said of
the McKay report: ``The findings I believe are devastating to Mr.
Meese, to his claim that he has been ethical. How anyone other than
Ed Meese could claim that this report vindicates him is beyond me.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0031 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0308EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-China-Disasters     07-19 0209</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-China-Disasters,0214</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Natural Disasters Kill 529 in First Half of Year</HEAD>
<DATELINE>BEIJING (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Natural disasters killed 529 people and caused
$540 million in damage in China in the first half of this year, an
official newspaper reported today.
   The China Daily, quoting a Civil Affairs Ministry official, said
floods, drought, landslides and cold spells also injured 11,588
people, destroyed 470,000 homes and affected 64 million of China's
1.07 billion people.
   Disasters also damaged $2.4 million homes and killed 90,000
horses and oxen, it said.
   Most the deaths and injuries were caused by floods that ravaged
large areas of southern China last month, washing away at least
$1.1 billion pounds of grain.
   The report said 65.8 million acres of land have been affected by
drought, which has dried up crops in 18 provinces in central,
southern and western China. Another 24.7 million acres has been hit
by floods.
   China has about 296 million acres of arable land.
   The daily said the Civil Affairs Ministry had allocated $130
million in disaster relief. It did not give comparative figures for
casualties and damage in 1987.
   In 1986, natural disasters claimed 5,381 lives, injured 40,396
and destroyed 2 million homes. The government that year spent $384
million to help disaster victims.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0032 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0303EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-Names     07-19 0965</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Names,1006</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Names In The News</HEAD>
<HEAD>LaserPhoto NY14</HEAD>
<DATELINE>SANTA MONICA, Calif. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Ike Turner, who gained fame in the
1960s singing alongside then-wife Tina Turner, received a one-year
sentence in county jail for possession and transportation of
cocaine.
   Turner, 56, of Cerritos was taken into custody after Monday's
sentencing. He also was sentenced to three years of probation, said
Al Albergate, a spokesman for the district attorney.
   Turner was convicted April 15 on two drug-related felony counts
of possession and transportation of cocaine stemming from an August
arrest in West Hollywood.
   In October 1986, Turner admitted he had used cocaine daily for
at least 15 years and said he was undergoing rehabilitation to kick
the habit.
   Ike and Tina Turner, who divorced in 1976, topped the music
charts during the 1960s with such songs as ``A Fool in Love,''
``It's Gonna Work Out Fine,'' and ``Proud Mary.''
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>LOS ANGELES (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Charlton Heston will direct Herman Wouk's
play ``The Caine Mutiny Court-Martial'' this fall in China, the
actor said.
   ``Art has always been an effective ambassador between nations,''
said Heston, who recently directed and starred in London,
Washington and Los Angeles productions of the play.
   The play is scheduled for mid-October in Beijing People's Art
Theatre, Heston said in announcing the project Monday.
   The venture grew out of the efforts of a non-profit association
formed by author Bette Bao Lord and James A. Doolittle. The
association works to involve performing and creative artists from
China and America in theater projects.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>BRIGHTON, England (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Princess Anne blames the ``disposable
mentality'' of modern society for water pollution and is calling
for stronger controls to ensure clean water supplies.
   ``With water resources, it cannot be worth waiting to see if the
worst does happen,'' the princess told delegates to an
international conference on water pollution Monday in this southern
England city.
   ``I sometimes wonder if it is only a disaster or major failure
that really gets things moving,'' she said.
   Anne, the only daughter of Queen Elizabeth II, recalled that one
of her ancestors, Queen Victoria, ordered an investigation into
river pollution in the 19th century.
   ``I suspect she might be appalled by the lack of progress in
many areas, largely due to the disposable mentality and short-term
outlook of modern man,'' the princess said.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>HOLLAND, Mich. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A boy suffering from kidney disease had a
visit from football star Jim McMahon and says that despite
McMahon's wiseguy reputation, the Chicago Bears quarterback wasn't
``cocky or anything.''
   Friends of Scott Bremer's family organized McMahon's visit to
the Bremers' home Friday to bring attention to the family's
financial plight due to Scott's illness.
   Scott, 13, was born with polycystic kidney disease and has
endured two kidney transplants in the past three years, both of
which have failed and left him dependent on kidney dialysis. He
also has survived 13 operations, a heart attack and collapsed lung.
   Emily Bremer, Scott's mother, said the football star didn't live
up to his reputation for being arrogant. ``He was so nice and
caring,'' she said.
   Scott said he too was surprised by McMahon's demeanor.
   ``He was shy and he didn't talk much at first,'' Scott said.
``But later we started talking real good. He wasn't cocky or
anything.''
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>TULSA, Okla. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Fourteen youngsters are planning a
scholastic mission to the moon this summer under the direction of
former astronaut William Pogue.
   Pogue, who served as pilot of the 84-day Skylab 4 mission in
1973-74, is teaching two two-week courses on space exploration in a
Tulsa Junior College program called College for Young Scholars. The
program is for students in grades six through 10.
   The former member of the Air Force Thunderbirds was on the
support crews of Apollo 7, 11 and 14 and traveled 35.5 million
miles in space on Skylab.
   He says his classes stress the importance of taking inventory
and keeping accurate records.
   ``When we were up in Skylab we had 10,000 things stored and we
still couldn't find anything,'' he said.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Esquire magazine thinks Bush and Dole would make
a good Republican presidential ticket _ George Bush and Elizabeth
Dole, that is.
   The magazine named Mrs. Dole its Woman of the Year in its August
issue and endorsed her for the vice president's office.
   Esquire said Mrs. Dole was selected for its annual honor because
she ``looks soft but plays tough... was Queen of the May at Duke
(University), but also Phi Beta Kappa ... is utterly open about her
ambition, but tucks all the rest of herself away.''
   Mrs. Dole left her post as U.S. transportation secretary to help
her husband, Senate Minority Leader Robert Dole, in his
unsuccessful bid for the Republican presidential nomination earlier
this year.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>HONOLULU (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Comedian Red Skelton got a surprise from fellow
funnyman Milton Berle at a benefit performance when Berle emerged
from the audience to lead a rendition of ``Happy Birthday'' for
Skelton.
   The tribute came near the end of the two-hour benefit Sunday
during which Skelton collapsed due to heat exhaustion, a charity
spokesman said.
   Skelton was feeling better Monday, when he turned 75, said Lynn
Cook, executive director of the March of Dimes Chapter of the
Pacific.
   ``He's just fine. He got a good night's sleep and is planning on
having a wonderful birthday,'' Cook said.
   Skelton, overcome by heat, humidity and dehydration, collapsed
as he left the Waikiki Shell stage 90 minutes into his performance
Sunday.
   But Berle, who turned 80 last week, stepped up from the
audience, took the microphone and sang ``Happy Birthday'' to
Skelton, who then returned to the stage.
   Skelton plans to have a full medical exam after he returns to
his home in Palm Springs, Calif., Cook said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0033 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0311EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a BC-Dance     07-19 0382</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Dance,0396</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>National Ballet of Canada Gives Theatrical Evening</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: No PMs Planned</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By MARY CAMPBELL</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Two theatrical ballets were given their New York
premieres on opening night of the National Ballet of Canada's
one-week season at the Metropolitan Opera.
   The program Monday began with ``La Ronde,'' an entertaining
ballet based on Arthur Schnitzler's 1900 tale of serial liasons
among ten characters.
   All 10 dancers were splendid. Ronda Nychka has an enticing solo
in the first scene, ``The Prostitute and the Soldier,'' which ends
with John Alleyne as the soldier walking away without looking back.
He returns for ``The Soldier and the Parlormaid,'' an expansive,
exuberant duet with Kimberly Glasco. He struts away from that
encounter.
   And so it goes, as we see the narcissistic Young Gentleman, the
Young Wife, the Husband, the Sweet Young Thing and so on. The final
scene has the Count (Frank Augustyn), after a duet of sophisticated
decadence with the Actress, encountering the prostitute from the
first scene.
   Tetley then runs his 10 scenes through again on fast-forward _ a
few steps from each. ``La Ronde'' would be stronger without that.
   And he errs somewhat on the side of subtlety. The differences
between scenes should not be as broad as burlesque, but sometimes
the differences Tetley draws are so subtle that contrast is lacking.
   ``Blue Snake,'' choreographed by Robert Desrosiers, seems overly
influenced by performance art. Its most striking feature is its
sets, with weird costumes coming in second.
   It is set in a jungle, with modern music by Ahmed Hassan and
John Lang. Dancers dressed as zebras in abstract black and white
leotards cavort and undulate. Monkeys run about to strains of jazz.
The face of a giant appears; his arms move in from the side walls,
his hands gathering up monkeys and stuffing them through his open
mouth.
   There is drumming, eerie music, people in black with tall
dancecaps, three women in blue with gold quills down their spines,
people with square pieces of cloth fastened to head, ankle and
wrists so they look like flying kites, and people wearing
gyroscopes on their heads. It ends with a long snake flying through
the air.
   It's very visual, which must intrigue some audiences. We'd
rather see a ballet.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0034 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0116EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u a AM-BankFire 3rdLd-Writethru a0452 07-19 0444</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Bank Fire, 3rd Ld - Writethru, a0452,0453</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Fire in Downtown Los Angeles High-Rise Declared Extinguished</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: UPDATES throughout with no injuries reported, quotes from
fire officials, records show sprinklers in basement, 30th floor,
other detail. No pickup.</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By BARBARA METZLER</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>LOS ANGELES (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A smoky fire erupted Monday night at the
downtown Union Bank building, burning offices on two upper floors
of the 38-story tower before it was extinguished.
   At least two workers in the building escaped safely after the
fire broke out about 8:20 p.m. No injuries were reported, said
Battalion Chief Bob Defeo.
   On May 4, the worst high-rise fire in the city's history killed
one man and injured 40 people at the nearby First Interstate bank
building.
   ``There were some lessons learned in the First Interstate
fire,'' said Inspector Ed Reed, who told reporters that
firefighters quickly raced up 34 floors to get to the Union Bank
fire before it could rage out of control.
   In the First Interstate blaze, firefighters had had difficulty
reaching the flames.
   Monday's fire was declared extinguished shortly after 9 p.m.,
said fire spokesman Jim Williamson. About 75 firefighters were at
the scene.
   Michael Turner said he was working on the 35th floor when the
fire broke out.
   ``I was in our law library doing some research, and I felt two
explosions which I thought was an earthquake,'' he said. ``When I
realized it wasn't an earthquake, I went back to my desk and the
fire alarm went off.''
   ``I went and found a co-worker. We looked out one of the windows
and saw flames coming up, and we got the heck out of there.''
   The fire burned two offices on the 34th floor and 1{ offices on
the 35th floor, said Defeo, adding, ``This was nowhere near the
Interstate fire. We got it in time.''
   Before the fire was controlled, a television news helicopter
circled the tower and spotted flames coming from an upper-story
office and thick smoke coming from other windows.
   The Union Bank tower is located within blocks of the First
Interstate Bank building.
   A sprinkler system was being installed at the First Interstate
building, but was not yet operating on the night the fire
devastated the upper floors of the state's tallest skyscraper.
   Alexander Handy, a 24-year-old maintenance worker, died after he
became trapped in an elevator. Several people were trapped inside
the smoke-filled building for hours as firefighters worked to
rescue them.
   The Union Bank building was equipped with sprinklers in the
basement and on the 30th floor, according to Fire Department
records. It was built before the 1974 city ordinance requiring
sprinklers in high-rises.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0035 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0319EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w PM-Intelsat-Fraud     07-19 0220</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Intelsat-Fraud,210</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Former No. 2 Executive Arrested In Aruba</HEAD>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The former second-ranking executive at the
global satellite communications network Intelsat is the fourth
person to be charged in a scheme that allegedly defrauded the
company of $5.4 million.
   Jose L. Algrett, fired as deputy director general of Intelsat in
December 1986, was arrested in Aruba last week and charged with
conspiracy to defraud the organization of $3.8 million, according
to a criminal complaint unsealed Monday in federal court.
   He was being held without bond pending a hearing Thursday before
a U.S. magistrate.
   The scheme, said to have been carried out between April 1984 and
September 1986, revolved around the construction and financing of
the second phase of the Intelsat headquarters in Washington and
allegedly included a combination of unauthorized payments,
bid-rigging, kickbacks and phony commissions.
   Algrett had been living in Venezuela since January 1987 and had
sporadic talks with prosecutors and FBI agents aimed at a plea
agreement, but the talks reportedly broke off last month.
   When Algrett traveled to Aruba to meet with a U.S. agent, he was
arrested by Aruban authorities and put on a plane for Miami, where
he was arrested by the FBI.
   Intelsat, the International Telecommunications Satellite
Organization, is a consortium of 114 member countries that develops
and manages communications satellites.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0036 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0326EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p PM-CVN--ConventionNotebook     07-19 0519</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-CVN--Convention Notebook,530</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Behind-The-Scenes People Perk Up Convention</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By SCOTT McCARTNEY</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   With enough cameras present to cover every
conceivable angle of the Democratic National Convention, Franklin
McMahon seemed as obsolete as the flash bulb.
   But there he was, pencils in hand, sketching the scene on his
artist's tablet, recording the proceedings for time, rather than
for the moment.
   ``I do this because an artist sees differently,'' McMahon said.
``I see what all these cameras can't. I see around the corners.
What I do is not just a snapshot. It's a statement, and the camera
usually doesn't make a statement.''
   McMahon, from Chicago, has been lending his perspective to the
political scene for three decades now. His work is being shown at
the CNN Center adjacent to the Omni during the convention.
   While the convention buzzed around him, McMahon deliberately
outlined a picture, looking for nuances and special characteristics
of this convention. He placed a computer terminal in the
foreground, symbolizing the equipment used to count each state's
votes.
   ``I try to bring an element of humor to it,'' McMahon said.
``This is a TV show and I make sure I show TV some way.''
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   Thelma Grundy is giving the Democrats and reporters gathered
here some food for thought.
   Her home-cooking hole-in-the-wall restaurant _ strategically
located just blocks from the convention center _ has been spooning
up okra, squash, collard greens, ribs and fried chicken so fast she
hasn't had time to wash the flour from her apron.
   ``The Lord is good to me,'' she chuckled.
   Even though a plethora of fancy eateries surround the convention
area, Thelma's Kitchen has served a steady stream of customers.
She's been going through a 10-pound crate of okra a day, and at
least 30 pounds of chicken.
   It's the busiest she's even been in 20 years of serving food.
   ``Business is so rushed I can't get to my favorite recipe. It's
a special recipe which the Lord gave me and I don't think anyone
else has _ okra cakes. A lot of people rave about it.''
   The cakes and other southern specialties have spawned a loyal
following for Thelma, including local lawyers, businessmen, Atlanta
Hawks basketball players and even _ in her pre-fame days _ Vanna
White.
   But when it comes to politics, Thelma says she doesn't have much
stomach for it.
   ``I like to feed 'em, but I don't much like it otherwise,'' she
said.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   From Danny Bigay's perspective, some 65 feet above the Omni
floor, the Democratic National Convention hasn't been as well
organized as, say, a rock concert.
   Bigay was part of the crew that rigged and focused the hundreds
of lights that Democrats hope make their convention shine. He crept
across steel trusses hung from the ceiling, used rope-climbing
techniques and delighted in thrilling the early-arriving reporters
and delegates by descending upside-down.
   ``They've never done this before, so they were kind of making it
up as they went along,'' Bigay said of the organizers. ``But there
haven't been any major problems. There's nothing that's not
working. And nobody got hurt.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0037 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0329EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p PM-CVN--PodiumPolitics     07-19 0614</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-CVN--Podium Politics,600</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Pols Fight for Time on Podium to Impress Folks Back Home</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JILL LAWRENCE</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Forget all the pomp and preparation, the careful
creation of convention images for national consumption. For the raw
guts of politics, check the podium schedule.
   From lowly House challengers to sitting governors, politicians
are lobbying fiercely for a moment or two in the spotlight at the
Democratic National Convention. The evolving schedule provides
clear-cut evidence of the pressure, the winners and the losers.
   For instance, consider this year's Senate candidates.
   On the schedule issued Saturday, they were allotted 10 minutes
tonight for introductions. In a revision released Monday, the
contenders were up to 19 minutes and brief remarks.
   True, they were scheduled for 4:50 p.m. _ but any exposure is
good exposure for challengers fighting for recognition from the
home folks who read the local newspaper and watch local TV.
   ``Podium time is a good boost for these candidates. They'll
certainly be covered in their print outlets,'' said Anita Dunn,
spokeswoman for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee.
   The success of her group sparked a competitive drive at the
House Congressional Campaign Committee. ``We are co-equal branches
of government,'' explained committee chairman Beryl Anthony, D-Ark.
   His tongue was in his cheek, but he made his point. The revised
schedule showed Wednesday proceedings starting 39 minutes earlier
than initially planned. More than half an hour was devoted to the
House candidates.
   The House segment on the updated schedule was followed by an
all-new governors' segment, as the National Governors Association
weighed in. The leaders of Pennsylvania, Kentucky and Louisiana
secured four or five minutes apiece _ a princely chunk in the
fast-moving new world of abridged television coverage.
   ``People have been astonishingly cooperative about time,'' said
Mike McCurry, spokesman for the Democratic National Committee.
``We've been able to persuade them that four minutes on the podium
constitutes a major address.''
   Other late additions to the schedule included introductions of
others who ran for president, all of them except Sen. Joseph Biden,
D-Del., who is not here, and former Sen. Gary Hart, who is here as
a newspaper columnist and television commentator.
   The new schedule set aside time for House Majority Leader Tom
Foley of Washington and Washington, D.C. Mayor Marion Barry, for
introducing Geraldine Ferraro, and even for introducing someone
identified as ``the Young Delegate.''
   It appeared that Walter Mondale, the presidential nominee in
1984, was one of the casualties of the revised schedule. Designated
to be introduced by House Speaker Jim Wright on the initial
program, he was nowhere to be found on the revision.
   ``You caught what must be either a typo or a lapse in the
synapses of the press secretary,'' said McCurry. Mondale was indeed
introduced, at about 8:30 Monday night _ a half hour before network
coverage began. Asked the meaning of this, McCurry replied, ``Prime
time was 8 to 11 last time I checked.''
   There were some true casualties, or heroes, forced to sacrifice
their precious podium time to the demands of the modern convention.
Everyone presenting a section of the platform lost a minute; Wright
and Sen. Christopher Dodd, D-Conn., each lost four.
   Bob Farmer, the Dukakis finance chairman widely considered a
miracle worker, dropped from four minutes to two. And a videotape
of praise for DNC Secretary Dorothy Bush, who calls the roll, got
slashed from six minutes to three.
   The time pressure is such that McCurry wouldn't even consider a
reporter's question about the possibility of roll call rather than
voice votes on platform amendments. ``I wouldn't want to
speculate,'' he said, ``on anything that would keep the clocks from
running on time.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0038 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0331EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p PM-CVN--JacksonFallout Bjt   07-19 0766</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-CVN--Jackson Fallout, Bjt,760</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Some Jackson Delegates Still Smart from `Insult'</HEAD>
<NOTE>EDS: Cederick is correct in 8th graf</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By MIKE FEINSILBER</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Deep bitterness smolders among many of Jesse
Jackson's black delegates over what they see as Michael Dukakis'
``slap in the face'' of their candidate and they say whether it
hurts Dukakis in November will be settled by Jackson _ not Dukakis.
   Even after the breakfast accord between Dukakis and Jackson,
William Crawford of Indianapolis, Ind. speaks for many when he
says: ``George Bush is not attractive, but I don't think we can say
Dukakis at any price.''
   State Sen. Hank Sanders of Selma, Ala., echoes Crawford _ and
then some: ``At some particular time, dignity becomes more
important than any election,'' he says. ``I'll give up anything for
dignity, including life.''
   But political activist Joe Reed of Montgomery, Ala., draws the
line at voting Republican. ``There's not a Democrat here who wants
to see George Bush elected,'' he says. ``Jesse Jackson has as much
obligation to get the Democratic ticket elected as Dukakis does.''
   On the floor of the Democratic convention Monday night, Jackson
delegates chanted ``Jesse, Jesse'' and said they were trying to
send a message.
   ``I think we are trying to show we still support Jesse Jackson
and also show the Democratic Party it should include us more in the
power structure,'' said Bernard Parker of Detroit.
   Associated Press reporters interviewed a sampling of black
Jackson delegates on the potential November fallout from what many
blacks call the insulting way Dukakis treated Jackson in picking a
Southern moderate, Lloyd Bentsen, as running mate at the very time
Jackson had started campaigning for the job _ and then failing to
tell Jackson of that decision.
   Arthur Eve of Buffalo, N.Y., deputy majority leader of the lower
house in the state legislature, says his fellow black New York
delegates are ``outraged'' over a ``snub'' of Jackson that was
``very deliberate and very planned.''
   Milton ``Toby'' Fitch, a black legislator from Wilson, N.C.,
calls it ``a slap in the face,'' adding: ``You don't have some
underling contact Rev. Jackson; you do it yourself.''
   Dissents Cederick Dwyer, 45, of South Haven, Mich.: ``I don't
feel insulted and I don't think Jesse Jackson was insulted.''
Nonetheless, he says: ``Dukakis needs to make an apology.''
   Some black Jackson delegates say Jackson retains enormous power
because the signals he sends will decide whether blacks will vote
in massive numbers for the man from Massachusetts.
   Painter George Wood, 71, from Richfield, Minn., says he'll
follow Jackson's cues. ``Whatever way he goes, I'm with him 100
percent,'' Wood says.
   Chimes in Jim Richardson of Charlotte, N.C., a state senator:
``Most of the delegates I know will stick with Jesse right down the
line, wherever it takes us.''
   ``A strong endorsement (of Dukakis by Jackson) would get me to
support him strongly, but it has to come to that,'' says Wayne
Williams of Delaware.
   Adds Mary Jo Haywood of Camilla, Ga.: ``If he comes out
enthusiastically for the ticket, then black voters will support it.
But if he's lackadaisical, they will interpret it as meaning that
it doesn't matter if they vote in November or not.''
   Nebraska Brace, a black alderman from Albany, N.Y., says the way
Dukakis handled Bentsen was an insult to ``black people in
general,'' but he feels the Jackson forces will return to the fold.
``We'll win in November and we'll win with the black vote,'' he
predicts.
   The interviews yield these additional impressions:
   _Some see a Machiavellian duplicity in the way Dukakis let word
slip out before notifying Jackson. ``He did it deliberately,'' says
Rep. Cardiss Collins of Chicago, relaxing during a ride on an
antique railroad. ``He was trying to appeal to a certain segment of
Democratic voters who would like that kind of thing. He was trying
to ... say that he wasn't going to be dictated to by the Jesse
Jackson supporters.''
   Adds Gail Peterson, 35, a community organizer from Grand Rapids,
Mich.: ``By choosing Bentsen, Dukakis made a statement to the
conservative wing of the party.''
   _But some, like Howard P. Rawlings of Baltimore, Md., pay
grudging respect to Dukakis' pragmatism. Rawlings says Dukakis
``has a tough balancing act to maintain.'' and adds that Jackson
would not want to leave the convention ``with the weight of a
potential Democratic loss on his shoulders.''
   _Some black delegates say the incident displayed Dukakis'
remoteness from black concerns. ``The Dukakis campaign has to be
more sensitive to the needs and concerns of black constituents,''
says William Gibson of South Carolina.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0039 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0331EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p PM-CVN--ConventionKitsch     07-19 0521</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-CVN--Convention Kitsch,520</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Souvenir Booths Lend Carnival Atmosphere to Convention Site</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JOSEPH B. FRAZIER</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   There's more than one way to sell a donkey.
   You can sling an elephant gun over his shoulder, name him
``Dembo'' and put him on a T-shirt.
   You can put him on a beer mug or a key chain, or show him
kicking an elephant into the next county on the side of a coffee
cup.
   It's all here at row after row of hastily erected souvenir
booths near The Omni, site of the Democratic National Convention.
There's something for every taste, or lack of it, at this sun-baked
bazaar of political kitsch.
   The Democratic National Committee has licensing rights on items
carrying its official logo, which also has a donkey it. But it's
open season in Atlanta this week on other donkey goods.
   There are rolls of toilet paper with ``1988 Democratic
Convention'' (no donkey) printed in red, white and blue on each
sheet.
   There are donkey hats, donkey balloons, donkey buttons and a red
and white cushion depicting a donkey's generous hindquarters with
the helpful legend, ``For Your ...''
   There is a donkey on a bib (``One For My Baby. 1988 Democratic
Convention''), a donkey call for $10 and, in a bow to prospective
party nominee Michael Dukakis, a stuffed donkey imprinted with ``I
Like Mikey.''
   Wait, there's more.
   There are donkey shoelaces, donkey running shorts and an
staggering variety of donkey buttons and T-shirts.
   ``Get your souvenir delegate's button here,'' whooped one
pitchman at passing delegates who streamed toward The Omni for
Monday night's opening session.
   ``I've got Al Gore buttons,'' yelled another.
   How are they selling?
   ``I don't have any,'' he admitted. ``I saw the lady wearing one
and I wanted her to stop and look at this other stuff.''
   ``I've got Jesse Jackson soda pop,'' shouted a vendor standing
over an ice-filled cooler.
   The side of the cans said ``Coke.''
   Roy McClure of Atlanta has erected a collage of Washington,
D.C., with portraits of Republican Party leaders scattered among
the landmarks.
   For a dollar you stand behind a line and throw three darts. If
one of them nails George Bush you get a free convention T-shirt.
   ``You don't get anything if you hit Reagan except a good time,''
McClure said. Business was brisk.
   ``Shirts and hats are selling real well,'' said Chris Moore,
operating another booth. ``And coffee cups. And Jackson. Anything
with Jesse Jackson on it.''
   One entrepreneur is offering small jars of genuine red Georgia
clay with a donkey on the label for $1 each. Another popular item
is a red, white and blue fan on a stick (``I'm a fan of the
Democrats''). It was 92 degrees in Atlanta on Monday.
   Shoppers can choose among Georgia peaches, a golf ball with a
peach and ``Atlanta '88'' on it, or a jar of Georgia peach
preserves.
   Rhett Butler peers from the chest of one shirt uttering his
immortal line, ``Frankly, my dear ... ''
   Another booth offers china figurines of Scarlett O'Hara in a
hoop skirt. There are no donkeys on Scarlett.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0040 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0325EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w PM-FarmScene     07-19 0859</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Farm Scene,850</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Heat, Drought Take Toll On Vegetable Yields</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By DON KENDALL</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Farm Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Commercial vegetable farmers have boosted
acreages from a year ago, but heat and drought are taking a toll of
some of the crop yields, including peas grown for freezing and
canning, says an Agriculture Department report.
   Consumer food prices overall are expected to rise 3 percent to 5
percent this year, with about 1 percentage point of the increase
attributed to the drought. In 1989, USDA officials say, the current
drought losses may force up food prices an additional 2 percentage
points, perhaps making a total increase of around 6 percent.
   Prospective acreage for seven fresh market vegetables was
estimated at 272,100 acres, down fractionally from 272,790 a year
ago, the report said Monday. Carrots and sweet corn declined, while
other crops increased. Those included broccoli, cauliflower,
celery, lettuce and tomatoes.
   The total for five major vegetables for processing was 1.35
million acres under contract to processors, a 2 percent increase
from 1987. Increases were reported for snap beans, cucumbers for
pickles and tomatoes, but there are fewer acres of sweet corn and
green peas.
   Drought and heat have stressed a number of the crops that have
not been irrigated, the report said.
   For example, in the category of sweet corn for fresh market
sale, the report said that drought and heat have hurt the crop in
New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan. In California,
however, sweet corn ``has made good progress'' after being ``slowed
somewhat by unseasonably cool weather.''
   In New Jersey, the tomato crop declined due to drought, and
``yields will be affected severely if the dry weather continues.''
   Looking at processing vegetables _ the canned and frozen kind
that consumer will see at stores next winter _ the report said hot,
dry weather has hurt yields of cucumbers used for making pickles
and ``there is increased interest this year in fall planted
cucumbers'' for processing.
   ``Production of green peas for processing is down 32 percent
from last year, based on reports from processors,'' the report
said. ``Hot, dry weather has reduced the crop expectation to
299,000 tons, compared with 437,000 tons last year and nearly
415,000 tons the year before.''
   Drought in the northcentral states has cut the pea crop
drastically, the report said.
   ``Minnesota yields dropped 45 percent as heat during bloom and
filling devastated the crop,'' the report said. ``Wisconsin
processors report yields at half last year's level. Atlantic Coast
states held good moisture supplies during the spring and are
harvesting generally better (pea) crops than last year.''
   The government's Interagency Drought Policy Committee said last
week in a report to President Reagan that ``fruits and vegetables
and many other crops will be largely unaffected, even though
production may be down in some areas such as the Lake states.''
   It added: ``These crops are produced over wide areas in the
United States and are often irrigated. The sugar beet crop is
expected to be down modestly while supplies of sweet corn, green
beans, carrots, beets and tart cherries will also be smaller.''
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A Washington D.C., consulting firm has been
named as the Agriculture Department's Minority Contractor of the
Year.
   Assistant Secretary John J. Franke Jr., who oversees USDA
administrative programs, said Monday the award went to Miranda
Associates for its ``exceptional logistical planning and
development of training materials'' used in the Women, Infants and
Children program, or WIC, a supplemental feeding program.
   Seven other firms were also recognized for ``exemplary service''
as minority contractors:
   Advanced Data Concepts Inc., Portland, Ore.; Bayview
Construction Co., Polson, Mont.; Bell Trucking and Construction of
Mississippi Inc., Delta City, Miss.; C.H. James and Co.,
Charleston, W.Va.; JoAnn Fullerton Associates, Wheaton, Md.; Jones
and Wood Inc., Washington D.C.; and Raymond Norman Construction
Co., Greenwood, S.C.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Sometimes old research, like yesteryear's
fashions, makes a comeback, or at least is done up in new packages,
says the Agriculture Department.
   Back in the 1960s, USDA peanut researcher Joseph Pominski and
others developed and patented a chemical-free process that removes
about half the fat from raw peanuts, which then can be roasted and
eaten as a snack food with about a third fewer calories than
regular peanuts.
   The department's Agricultural Research Service said Monday that
the patent expired in 1983, but renewed health interest ``has
helped bring new interest to the research.''
   A major food company, Heinz USA, began selling partially
defatted roasted peanuts made with a commercial process based on
the technology developed by Pominski and colleagues at the agency's
Southern Regional Research Center in New Orleans.
   Pominski, a chemical engineer, and his fellow workers used a
press to squeeze out about half the oil from raw peanuts. After
that, the raw peanuts are soaked in hot water and then roasted for
five minutes.
   ``Regular roasted peanuts will crumble if you squeeze them, but
raw peanuts that are squeezed and then roasted don't. They regain
their shape,'' says Pominski. ``We like to say that raw peanuts
have a memory.''
   The agency said the lower-fat peanuts are sold by Heinz USA
under the ``Weight Watchers'' label.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0041 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0333EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p PM-CVN--Rules-Credentials     07-19 0575</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-CVN--Rules-Credentials,590</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Democrats Show Unity With Quick Adoption of Rules, Credentials</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By DONNA CASSATA</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Democrats pointed to the quick adoption of major
rule changes and the seating of more than 4,000 delegates without a
fight as a sign to the nation of their commitment to party unity
and hopes for victory in November.
   ``We decided to go down the road of cooperation and it leads to
victory in 1988,'' Sen. John Breaux, D-La., told delegates on
Monday at the start of the 48th Democratic National Convention.
   Rules and credentials, constant points of contention for the
Democratic Party, were resolved weeks before the convention and
adopted without a single floor fight or nay vote shortly after
Democratic chairman Paul G. Kirk gaveled the gathering to order.
   The speedy adoption _ within 45 minutes _ broke a 25-year
Democratic record of fighting.
   ``We are here to unite tonight,'' said Leroy Irvis, speaker of
the Pennsylvania House and chairman of the Credentials Committee.
``I give you a report and there will be no minority report filed.
Every single one has been unanimously approved of. Every single
debate has been resolved.''
   Negotiators for nominee-to-be Michael Dukakis and Jesse Jackson
reached agreements last month and the rules and credentials
committees ratified the results to ensure a unified convention.
   Dukakis had enough delegates to win the nomination plus a
600-delegate cushion that allowed him to concede to Jackson's
demands for added delegate representation in Kansas and Indiana.
   ``Everybody had to swallow a little to win big,'' said Rep.
Patricia Schroeder, D-Colo., who served on the Credentials
Committee.
   ``We had 24 disagreements and we resolved every single one of
those disagreements before we had a formal meeting,'' Irvis told
the convention. ``We met in Washington, D.C., without a single
problem to resolve.''
   And when the delegates responded with unanimous ayes to the
credentials report, Kirk noted that it was ``the first sign of
unanimity and unity.''
   On the issue of rules, Dukakis agreed to Jackson's call for a
change in the delegate selection process for 1992 to make it more
closely conform to the popular vote expressed at the primaries and
caucuses.
   The new rules will reduce the number of ``super delegates'' _
elected or party leaders _ from 643 to 394, or 15 percent of the
delegate total to about 10 percent.
   Super delegates are not bound by the results of their state
contests. Jackson contended that his super delegate support, which
was about one-tenth that of Dukakis, did not reflect the popular
vote backing he received in some states.
   The rules also ban direct-election and ``bonus'' primaries,
which had the effect of awarding delegates on a
``winner-take-more'' basis.
   In states such as New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Massachusetts,
those systems enabled Dukakis to amass the delegates needed to
clinch the nomination on the last day of the primary season.
   ``We worked out our differences in a spirit of compromises,''
said Kathy Vick, vice chairman from Louisiana and head of the Rules
Committee.
   Marion Barry, mayor of the District of Columbia and
representative of the Jackson forces, said this year ``we worked
together ... for a winning team.''
   As he left the podium, Ms. Vick said, ``Thank you, Governor
Barry,'' a reference to one of the other rule changes. The party
will recognize the mayor of Washington, D.C., as a governor in the
delegate selection process. The only requirement is that he be a
Democrat.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0042 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0335EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p PM-CVN--InternationalGuests     07-19 0595</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-CVN--International Guests,590</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Foreign Visitors Take In American Political System</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JOAN MOWER</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Foreigners on hand for the Democratic National
Convention are getting a rare look at politics American style and a
sneak preview of what kind of foreign policy a Dukakis
administration might bring.
   ``It's fantastic to see the people from all these states ... it
is very, very impressive,'' Molefi Pholo, an official from tiny
Lesotho, said Monday.
   Less impressive were temperatures that soared high into the 90s
each day. ``Outside is utter hell,'' he said. ``Hot and humid _ We
don't have that in Lesotho,'' he said.
   Pholo is one of more than 300 foreigners from nearly 100
countries to visit the convention as guests of the National
Democratic Institute, a government-funded organization affiliated
with the Democratic Party. Money for the trip was raised privately,
however.
   ``It is a rare opportunity for a Chinese to see your system,''
said Zhu Hongqian, a researcher at the Institute of American
Studies in Beijing.
   Like others in this city for the hoopla, the foreigners were
disappointed they were unable to visit the convention floor because
space was so tight. Instead, most watched the proceedings on
television.
   Nonetheless, they managed to get caught up in the excitement of
the moment.
   ``There is an air of confidence (among the Democrats) that was
noticeably absent at the last two conventions,'' said Bill Walker,
a Conservative member of the British Parliament from Blairgowrie,
Scotland. Walker, a fan of the United States, said 1988 is his
fourth Democratic convention.
   Even so, he predicted Republican George Bush would win the
election. ``They still have problems,'' he said of the Democrats.
   David Steel, who is retiring as head of Britain's Liberal Party,
disagreed. ``I am impressed compared to four years ago,'' he said.
``They have gotten their act together.''
   Steel was also impressed with the ``zap behind Jesse Jackson's
campaign.'' The issues that Jackson addresses are legitimate, he
said.
   Raquel Cerezo, the wife of Guatemala's president, Vinicio
Cerezo, had the same impression. ``It seems like we have common
problems,'' she said. ``Child-care problems, housing problems,
health problems.''
   But Mrs. Cerezo acknowledged that democracy as an institution is
not as healthy in Guatemala as in the United States.
   Generally, the international guests were eager to talk about the
pros and cons of the democratic process, but Vitaly Churkin of the
international department of the Communist Party in Moscow was
close-lipped.
   ``I'm sorry, I really can't talk with reporters,'' he said.
   Pholo said he was a less than impartial observer because of
concern about Democrats' supporting a platform that calls for tough
economic sanctions against South Africa.
   Pholo, principal secretary to Lesotho's cabinet, said his
country is ``totally engulfed by South Africa'' so sanctions
against the Pretoria regime would ``have a very deleterious effect
on us.''
   J. Brian Atwood, the institute's president, said the group's aim
was to give leaders from abroad ``an in-depth exposure to the
political system,'' and allow them a preview of what a Democratic
foreign policy might look like.
   Human rights would play a much larger role in policy if
Massachusetts Gov. Michael Dukakis wins in November, he said.
   The foreign guests have received briefings from well-known
Democrats like former Vice President Walter Mondale, the
institute's chairman, and Sen. Albert Gore, D-Tenn., and toured
Atlanta's landmarks, particularly those connected with the civil
rights movement.
   They've also been wined and dined; one party for Africans and
Frenchmen was hosted by businessman Maurice Tempelsman, a some-time
escort of Jacqueline Kennedy with mining interests in Zaire.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0043 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0318EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-MacArthurAwards-List     07-19 0786</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-MacArthur Awards-List,0817</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Thirty-One Get MacArthur Grants</HEAD>
<HEAD>With PM-MacArthur Awards, Bjt</HEAD>
<DATELINE>CHICAGO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Here are the winners of the 1988 MacArthur
Awards, announced today by the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur
Foundation, one of the nation's largest private philanthropic
groups.
   Winners, listed alphabetically with their grant amounts, are:
   _Charles Archambeau, 54, of Boulder, Colo., a geophysicist whose
accomplishments in seismic source theory have had important
implications for nuclear weapons testing and detection; $325,000.
   _Michael David Kighley Baxandall, 54, Berkeley, Calif., an art
historian and critic who has studied European art from the
Renaissance to the 19th century; $325,000.
   _Ruth Behar, 31, Ann Arbor, Mich., an anthropologist whose work
focuses on folk religion, witchcraft and sorcery in colonial and
contemporary Spain and Mexico; $210,000.
   _Ran Blake, 53, Boston, an improvisational pianist and composer
who has helped forge a new tradition within contemporary music from
classical, popular and ethnic sources; $320,000.
   _Charles Burnett, 44, Los Angeles, an independent filmmaker
known for his portrayals of black working-class life; $275,000.
   _Philip James DeVries, 36, Austin, Texas, an entomologist whose
work on butterflies in Costa Rica helped spur conservation efforts
for all invertebrates in the Western Hemisphere tropics; $235,000.
   _Andre Dubus, 51, Haverhill, Mass., a writer noted for short
fiction depicting contemporary America, including ``The Last
Worthless Evening''; $310,000.
   _Helen T. Edwards, 52, Batavia, Ill., a physicist who heads the
Accelerator Division of Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory and
is a leader in the design, development and installation of
superconducting particle accelerators; $315,000.
   _Jon H. Else, 44, Portola Valley, Calif., a documentary
filmmaker, cinematographer and producer whose works include ``The
Day After Trinity: J. Robert Oppenheimer and The Atomic Bomb'';
$275,000.
   _John G. Fleagle, 40, Stony Brook, N.Y., a primate
paleontologist whose work spans the areas of behavior, ecology,
anatomy and evolution; $255,000.
   _Cornell Fleischer, 37, St. Louis, Mo., a historian whose work
has developed a new approach to the study of Ottoman society and
its place in the pre-modern Islamic world; $240,000.
   _Getatchew Haile, 57, of Waite Park, Minn., a linguist whose
knowledge of ancient Ethiopian languages and literature is
contributing to the preservation of Ethiopian and Oriental
Christian traditions; $340,000.
   _Raymond Jeanloz, 35, Berkeley, Calif., a geologist noted for
his contributions in mineral physics and his efforts to link modern
physics to geophysics; $230,000.
   _Marvin Philip Kahl, 53, Sedona, Ariz., an ornithologist who
studies and photographs water birds, particularly storks,
spoonbills and flamingos; $320,000.
   _Naomi E. Pierce, 33, Princeton, N.J., a biologist whose work in
the area of plant-insect co-evolution has established several
important models for the field; $220,000.
   _Thomas Pynchon, 51, Boston, a writer whose books include
``Gravity's Rainbow;'' $310,000.
   _Stephen J. Pyne, 39, Phoenix, Ariz., an environmental historian
and firefighter who studies the cultural history of fire and has
written on the history of Antarctica; $250,000.
   _Max Roach, 64, New York, a noted jazz percussionist and
innovator in bebop; $372,000.
   _Hipolito Roldan, 44, Chicago, the head of the Chicago-based
Hispanic Housing Development Corp., a private, non-profit group
that creates affordable housing for low-income families; $275,000.
   _Anna Curtenius Roosevelt, 42, New York, an archaeologist whose
work on the Amazon has demonstrated that it was an area of cultural
innovation in prehistoric times; $265,000.
   _David A. Rosenberg, 39, Middletown, R.I., a historian of U.S.
nuclear strategy and policy; $250,000.
   _Susan I. Rotroff, 41, Princeton, N.J., an archaeologist whose
classifications of early Greek pottery have brought new
understanding to Hellenistic art and archaeology; $260,000.
   _Bruce D. Schwartz, 32, Los Angeles, a puppeteer who draws from
Japanese and European traditions and designs all elements of his
productions; $215,000.
   _Robert S. Shaw, 41, Urbana, Ill., a theoretical and
experimental physicist who works on information flow in chaotic and
dynamical systems; $260,000.
   _Jonathan D. Spence, 51, Woodbridge, Conn., author of books on
pre-modern and contemporary China which integrate literary
storytelling with original historical perspectives; $310,000.
   _ Noel M. Swerdlow, 46, Chicago, a historian of science who has
done technical analyses of the works of Ptolemy and Copernicus and
their impact on the development of astronomy; $285,000.
   _Gary A. Tomlinson, 36, Bala Cynwyd, Pa., a musicologist known
for studies of the composer Monteverdi, and for his
interdisciplinary approach to music in the Renaissance; $235,000.
   _Alan Walker, 46, Baltimore, a paleontologist who discovered and
analyzed important Pleistocene human skeletons; $300,000.
   _Eddie N. Williams, 56, Washington, D.C., a policy analyst and
head of the Joint Center for Political Studies; $330,000.
   _ Rita Wright, 52, Williamsburg, Va., an archaeologist who
interprets links between the material culture and social and
economic organization of the prehistoric Near East; $315,000.
   _T. Garth Youngberg, 48, Silver Spring, Md., founder of the
Institute for Alternative Agriculture, which conducts research and
publicizes its results on non-traditional agricultural methods and
policy; $305,000.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0044 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0338EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p PM-CVN--DemocratsAnalysis Bjt   07-19 0830</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-CVN--Democrats Analysis, Bjt,820</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>WASHINGTON WIRE: Dukakis, Jackson Both Gain from Agreement</HEAD>
<HEAD>An AP News Analysis</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By WALTER R. MEARS</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Special Correspondent</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   For Gov. Michael Dukakis, it was a good opening
day's work at the Democratic National Convention _ a ``no deal''
deal with Jesse Jackson.
   Dukakis coped with his only major convention problem without
yielding on points his Democratic ticket cannot afford to concede,
and without the sort of confrontation that could have alienated
Jackson's largely black constituency.
   Indeed, his Peachtree Street summit meeting may have solved a
problem for Jackson, too, by providing the defeated presidential
candidate with a graceful exit after his certain loss in the roll
call that will nominate Dukakis on Wednesday night.
   Jackson came away from a session that lasted nearly three hours
on Monday saying that he intends to work for the ticket, that he
wants to be supportive and complementary.
   He, Dukakis and Sen. Lloyd Bentsen of Texas, who is getting the
vice presidential nomination Jackson also wanted, appeared together
and said all the proper things.
   They talked about teamwork, a better relationship,
understanding, trust _ and very few specifics. ``There is no deal
and there is no fine print,'' said Dukakis. ``That is not the way
you win elections.''
   Not with Republicans watching for concessions that would enable
them to say that Dukakis had buckled under to the Jackson wing.
   ``Who is going to be the coach?'' asked Ed Rollins, former White
House political adviser and now a GOP ``truth squad'' observer in
Atlanta. ``Is Jesse Jackson going to call the shots?'' Rollins said
that would turn off a lot of voters.
   Dukakis said in advance that he would be calling the Democratic
plays. He did on Monday, with gestures and concessions to reassure
the Jackson wing. He conceded nothing of major significance.
   Party sources say the two camps reached an agreement on platform
disputes, under which Jackson will withdraw 10 of the 13 minority
platform planks that were to be debated tonight.
   Dukakis will ask his delegates to vote down his rival's call for
higher taxes on the wealthy and no first use of nuclear weapons.
Jackson's call for a Palestinian homeland will be debated, and is
expected to be withdrawn without a vote, the sources said.
   Jackson's major convention address also is scheduled tonight.
   There was another gesture in Dukakis' telephoned invitation to
Jackson to the peace summit before, not after, the challenger's own
candidacy has ended. Jackson isn't endorsing the ticket because he
still is running against it. He said he's still looking for a
miracle, and that when it doesn't happen, his campaign will pass
over into a new phase.
   That phase will get financial and staff help from the victors.
Jackson will have chartered airplanes for campaign missions in the
fall.
   He got the same thing four years ago from the campaign of former
Vice President Walter F. Mondale.
   Dukakis hinted at a role for Jackson in a future Democratic
administration, calling him a great leader ``and we hope in January
part of the American government.'' But campaign chairman Paul
Brountas said there was no agreement on a role for Jackson or his
people in a Dukakis transition or administration. He said that
would flow from natural evolution in a cooperative, winning
campaign.
   Jackson's camp was promised a bigger role on the Democratic
National Committee, but at the bottom, not the top. When 25
at-large members are appointed on Friday, Jackson supporters will
get about a dozen seats.
   But they will not have one of their own installed as chairman or
co-chairman to replace or to share authority with chairman Paul
Kirk. There will apparently be a new, top level voter registration
position to be filled by a Jackson ally.
   Dukakis representatives had agreed in advance to Jackson demands
on another front _ changes in the way Democratic nominating
delegates are elected. The Jackson-backed revisions, approved by
the convention Monday night without dissent, have the effect of
requiring that delegates be awarded more closely in proportion to
the popular vote in primary elections.
   In addition, the rules cut back sharply on the number of
convention seats set aside for party leaders and officeholders, and
left uncommitted by the primary process. The idea was to create an
independent bloc of office-holding delegates. The assumption was
that they would align with the candidate most likely to win the
general election.
   The 643 super delegates at this convention are for Dukakis, 10
to 1. At the next convention there will be 394.
   ``We negotiated new rules for 1992,'' said Jackson.
   That makes no practical difference to Dukakis. If he wins on
Nov. 8, he will be up for renomination, and it will be no contest.
If he loses, the 1992 field will belong to other candidates.
   One of them, surely, would be Jesse Jackson.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   _
   EDITOR'S NOTE _ Walter R. Mears, executive editor of The
Associated Press, has covered national politics for 25 years.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0045 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0338EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p PM-CVN--ConventionScene     07-19 0393</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-CVN--Convention Scene,400</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Entire Hall Is No-Smoking Section As Convention Gets Squeaky-Clean
Start</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By SCOTT McCARTNEY</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Democratic National Convention opened with a
smoking ban, a pledge to stay on time, some homespun politics and a
child's view of the presidency. But unity?
   Not really.
   Supporters of the Rev. Jesse Jackson, some wearing buttons
reading ``Respect Blackocrats Or Else,'' waged a war of shouts on
the floor of the Omni Monday night.
   They chanted ``Jesse, Jesse, Jesse'' each time their candidate's
name was mentioned, and audibly overpowered the refrains of ``Duke,
Duke.''
   The message wasn't lost on the majority of delegates for Michael
Dukakis.
   ``They can have their time,'' said Dukakis supporter Don Ortiz
of New Mexico.
   ``When the whole thing is over, we'll be demonstrating
together,'' predicted Pennsylvania delegate David Bielski. ``The
party has received their message.''
   The party also received a folksy Pledge of Allegiance from radio
raconteur and author Garrison Keillor and a group of first graders,
as well as celebrity readings of children's essays on the
presidency.
   If that weren't enough wholesomeness, the party banned smoking
in the convention hall, driving smokers out to a hazy arena outer
lobby.
   Joe Agostinelli, a Warwick, R.I., businessman was on the floor
chomping on an unlit cigar. ``I don't like it, but what are you
going to do? I've been a cigar smoker for 35 years. It's tough,''
he said.
   Agostinelli, a visitor, not a delegate, said, ``I haven't had it
lit since I got out of the car, but three people have come up to me
and said, `Would you mind putting that out?'''
   The Democrats offered everything from biographical videos of
keynote speaker Ann Richards and former president Jimmy Carter to
music videos of pop star Neil Diamond.
   There was a brass band, enough celebrities to satisfy
``Entertainment Tonight,'' and plenty of corny provincialism _ like
cardboard crab placards for the Maryland delegation.
   The opening affair ran a few minutes late, and there were a few
awkward moments, like the 90 seconds the podium was empty after
Polly Baca of Colorado was introduced.
   No matter.
   ``I feel like I'm on the brink of history,'' said Dukakis
delegate Leslie Hutchinson of Baltimore, Md.
   ``This party's not used to not having fights,'' said Richard
Trumka, president of the United Mine Workers and a Pennsylvania
delegate.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0046 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0339EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p PM-CVN--ConventionTV     07-19 0782</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-CVN--Convention TV,780</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Part One of Democrats' `Mini-Series' Features New TV Star</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By KATHRYN BAKER</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Television Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Democrats tailored their convention to
network prime time, all right, down to casting a new television
star.
   Texas State Treasurer Ann Richards' keynote address was the
highlight of the opening session of the Democratic National
Convention on Monday night. The speech soothed fears, at least for
the night, that television coverage of the event was going to be
dull as dishwater after Jesse Jackson and Michael Dukakis patched
up their differences Monday morning.
   The convention even ended virtually on time, running only about
10 minutes over the 11 p.m. EDT scheduled close.
   Richards' 30-minute address was down-home, funny and
sentimental. It could have been a network sitcom. In fact, with her
Southern twang, viewers tuning in for CBS' ``Designing Women,''
which the speech pre-empted, might not have noticed the difference.
   Only CBS' Diane Sawyer got to Richards for an interview after
her speech. Richards said she ``didn't think my eye contact with
the camera was all that great,'' but otherwise thought she did all
right.
   Former President Jimmy Carter's ascension to the platform _ this
time he got prime-time treatment, unlike 1984 _ was an emotional
high point, though his speech was lackluster after Richards.
   Until Richards' speech, the name of the game Monday night for
the networks was get Dukakis and Jackson.
   NBC even went on the air a half-hour earlier than the scheduled
9 p.m. to be first with live interviews of the two principals. ABC
stuck to its plan to open with Dukakis at 9. CBS started with a
Dukakis interview taped minutes earlier.
   Only NBC viewers saw the nice bit of Americana that opened
prime-time coverage of the session _ Garrison Keillor and a group
of elementary-school children saying the pledge of allegiance and
singing the national anthem. NBC went a tad high on the
cute-o-meter, though, with cutaways to Tom Brokaw and John
Chancellor joining in.
   Despite a barrage of network interviews throughout the night,
Dukakis and Jackson revealed little about the behind-the-scenes
bargaining that led to their reconciliation.
   CNN's Bernard Shaw was admirably dogged, though. ``Sir, I cannot
turn this loose,'' he told Dukakis. ``You still haven't told me,
you haven't told our viewers what you two agreed to.'' To no avail.
   Until the Dukakis-Jackson summit meeting and subsequent news
conference on Monday, it seemed Jackson's resentment at not being
chosen running mate might turn into some newsworthy controversy at
the otherwise well-planned convention.
   ``If it weren't for Jesse Jackson, we wouldn't have anything,''
ABC's Brit Hume had said Sunday.
   ``Do you have a plane ticket to Miami?'' quipped NBC's Dennis
Murphy on Monday.
   Things went smoothly Monday night for network floor reporters
who had anticipated the worst in the small, crowded Omni Arena,
though when ABC's Peter Jennings remarked that it looked reasonably
roomy down there, Jeff Greenfield replied: ``There will be no
walkout at this convention. It would take five pounds of axle
grease to get anybody out of here.''
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   CBS, in contract negotiations with legendary anchor Walter
Cronkite, is being careful to make him feel wanted during the
convention. During a weekend special, Cronkite and Dan Rather made
their first network appearance together since Cronkite suggested he
would have fired Rather for causing the network to go black for six
minutes last fall.
   Despite the tension, Rather was especially cordial, even shaking
Cronkite's hand and referring to him as ``colleague and mentor.''
On Monday night, Cronkite's commentary led off CBS' convention
coverage and closed it, though the Atlanta affiliate and probably
many others didn't come back for the wrap-up because the coverage
cut into local news time. CBS also has war horse Eric Sevareid on
hand.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   Dukakis and Jackson are not the only sought-after interviewees
at the convention. There are dozens of local television stations at
the convention, and the network anchors have at least a dozen
requests each from local affiliates who want the big guy on the
local news.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   Media quotes du jour:
   _``It's become like the boat show, or the auto show.'' _ CBS'
Bob Schieffer on the conventions.
   _``The only thing this thing doesn't do is crawl on its belly
like a reptile.'' _ CNN's Bernard Shaw describing ``the podium that
ate the convention.''
   _``People have even seen you save a LifeSaver, take it out
before a speech and pick it up again afterward.'' NBC's Tom Brokaw
asking Michael Dukakis about his reputation for penny-pinching.
   _``Nobody pays much attention to platforms at these things _ and
why should they?'' _ CBS' Dan Rather on the platform, the major
business in prime time tonight.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0047 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0319EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p PM-Dukakis Bjt   07-19 0657</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Dukakis, Bjt,660</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Final Days As Nominee-To-Be: Watching The Convention On TV</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By WILLIAM M. WELCH</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Michael Dukakis escaped the crowds for a brisk
``power walk'' through a city park, then endured a gantlet of
network interviews and technical glitches before settling in to
watch the televised version of the convention that will nominate
him for president.
   Awaiting his formal nomination on Wednesday, Dukakis saw the
opening night of the Democratic National Convention on a bank of
color televisions in his penthouse suite at a hotel just blocks
from the convention hall.
   He tuned in just as the keynote speech by Texan Ann Richards
began, and he phoned her immediately afterward.
   ``What am I going to say on Thursday?'' he told her. ``You said
it all.''
   With the resolution of campaign tensions between himself and
Jesse Jackson apparently out of the way, Dukakis was going today to
the Martin Luther King Jr. Center and gravesite for a tour and
speech. Accompanying him were the slain civil rights leader's
widow, Coretta Scott King, and Dukasis' designated running mate,
Sen. Lloyd Bentsen.
   Following a relaxed schedule, Dukakis took top aide Nick
Mitropolous to Atlanta's Piedmont Park on Monday afternoon for some
exercise _ despite the muggy, 90-degree plus weather.
   A former jogger who now prefers fast walks, Dukakis carried
four-pound weights in each hand and moved his arms vigorously with
each step in what he calls a ``power walk'' exercise. They went to
the park without the national press entourage that is otherwise
ever present when he moves around the city, and they walked for
three miles.
   ``We didn't see a single Bush supporter in the park,'' Dukakis
deadpanned hours later, talking with aides and a reporter as he
moved between suites at his hotel.
   The Massachusetts governor was joined in his private quarters by
the speaker of his state House, George Kevarian, and he took a few
moments to talk with top state aides back in Boston by phone.
   ``Compared to the Boston Statehouse, this is a day at the
beach,'' he said.
   Dukakis also spent time working on his nomination acceptance
speech to be delivered Thursday night. He didn't plan to enter the
convention hall until that night.
   Dukakis' three-hour meeting with Jackson early in the day
produced talk of party unity by both men.
   The main order of business for Dukakis' evening was the series
of interviews he conducted with the four network anchors. NBC, CBS,
ABC and CNN each had their turn, using control rooms set up near
where Dukakis and aides are staying.
   Aside from the expected questions about the Jackson settlement,
Dukakis faced some unexpected remarks _ like when NBC anchor Tom
Brokaw related the tale that Dukakis was so frugal he once took a
piece of hard candy from his mouth before a speech, saved it and
resumed enjoying it afterward.
   Off camera, he later explained that his motive was to avoid a
mess: ``I didn't want to leave it there, so I stuck it back in my
mouth.''
   Before his ABC interview, however, Dukakis sat silently while
technicians shouted back and forth over multiple audio lines about
a sound failure that lasted right up to airtime. ``Why doesn't he
hear Peter Jennings?'' a control-room voice repeated.
   ``I'm sorry for all that,'' anchor Jennings said into Dukakis'
earpiece seconds before they went on live, his sound line to the
governor restored. ``I think it's designed to drive us all crazy 30
seconds before air.''
   As the show came on, Mitropolous and other aides watched from a
next-door bedroom that was converted into a control room. The
anchor quoted an unidentified senior aide to Dukakis as saying,
``We want a convention that is organized, orderly and short _ just
like our candidate.''
   Stunned, the assembled aides groaned. Dukakis, who is 5-foot-8,
didn't flinch.
   ``He can take a punch,'' a producer for a rival network said
later.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0048 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0341EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p PM-CVN--Carter     07-19 0568</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-CVN--Carter,570</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Carter Regaining Place in Democratic Spotlight</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By DONALD M. ROTHBERG</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Political Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Jimmy Carter, shunned by his own party after a
trying term in the White House that ended in a landslide defeat
eight years ago, is edging back toward the spotlight.
   As his party's only living former president, Carter received a
warm reception Monday night after being introduced to the
Democrats' national convention as ``a great American and a great
Democrat.'' But he barely made prime time, for his appearance was
the closing act for the opening night of the Democratic National
Convention.
   Twice he dominated party conventions _ in 1976 when he went on
to the presidency and four years later when the campaign ended in
humiliating defeat.
   Delegates applauded for two minutes at the beginning and again
at the end of a speech in which he warned the Democrats to set
aside their propensity for internal battles.
   ``If I had to give you just one special message tonight,'' he
told them, ``I would summarize it in a single word: unity.''
   He urged the delegates to ``go forth from this convention united
behind out candidates and our ideals.''
   Carter could still remember vividly the 1980 Democratic
convention when he was nominated for a second term only after a
bitter fight with Sen. Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts. That
convention ended with Carter and Kennedy circling each other on the
podium, the senator trying to avoid a peacemaking embrace with his
victorious rival.
   The memory of the 1980 campaign in which Republican Ronald
Reagan carried 44 states to sweep Carter out of office and help
propel the GOP to control of the Senate sent Carter into a
political exile during which he rarely appeared at party functions.
   He spoke on the opening night of the 1984 convention, but his
appearance was little noticed in the acclaim given the keynote
address that year by Gov. Mario Cuomo of New York.
   Maxine Goldstein of Milledgeville, Ga., who was a member of the
site selection committee for the 1988 convention, said people would
ask when they heard the meeting might be held in Georgia, ``What
are you going to do about President Carter?''
   ``We're going to pull him out and put him on a pedestal and let
everyone appreciate him like we appreciate him,'' she said,
describing her reply.
   But the Georgia peanut farmer who burst from obscurity in 1976
to win the presidency still had to compete with the keynote speaker
_ this time Texas State Treasurer Ann Richards.
   And by the time he spoke, many of the seats that were filled for
her speech had emptied.
   Former Secretary of State Edmund S. Muskie reminded delegates of
some of Carter's finer moments.
   ``Let us remember him clasping the hands of Anwar Sadat and
Menahem Begin,'' said Muskie, recalling the Camp David accords that
brought peace between Egypt and Israel.
   ``He told the truth, he made his country strong,'' added Muskie.
   Republicans ridiculed Carter for an administration during which
Americans were held hostage in Iran and inflation and interest
rates hit double digits.
   Republican George Bush continues to push that image of the
Carter years in his campaign, a tactic that the former president
derisively noted Monday night.
   ``I have one announcement to make,'' he said. ``My name is Jimmy
Carter and I am not running for president. Did you hear that,
George?''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0049 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0344EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p PM-CVN--RichardsKeynote     07-19 0652</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-CVN--Richards Keynote,660</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>She Barbecues Bush and Brings the House to Its Feet</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By KEN HERMAN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Democratic keynoter Ann Richards drew laurels _
and laughter _ for a speech that used an easy, homey tone and
wicked humor to talk about what the Democrats can do for American
families and what the Republicans have not.
   ``This Republican administration treats us as if we were pieces
of a puzzle that can't fit together,'' the Texas state treasurer
said in her Monday night speech that departed in style and tone
from the traditional stemwinder that opens political conventions.
   New York Gov. Mario Cuomo, whose Democratic keynote address four
years ago propelled him to hero status in the Democratic Party,
called Ms. Richards' effort ``great,'' adding: ``She lit their fuse
tonight.''
   Ms. Richards, who is Texas' state treasurer and a 54-year-old
divorced mother of four grown children, saved her most pointed
quips for Vice President George Bush, the GOP presidential
nominee-to-be.
   The Omni audience interrupted the speech at least 50 times with
applause and laughs. Afterward, delegates said they were taking
their favorite Richards' lines home with them.
   ``George Bush is going to live for a long, long time with a
silver foot in his mouth. That one will stick,'' said delegate
Florence Peterson of Grand Rapids, Mich.
   The ``silver foot'' line, an instant classic among delegates,
was interrupted twice in the midst of it and ended with a roaring
response from delighted delegates.
   ``Poor George,'' Ms. Richards said, grinning broadly. ``He can't
help it. He was born with a silver foot in his mouth.''
   Bush was barbecued early and often by the treasurer from the
state where he has a Houston hotel suite that he calls home.
   ``I am delighted to be here with you this evening because after
listening to George Bush all these years I figured you needed to
know what a real Texas accent sounds like,'' Ms. Richards, who
plans a 1990 race for Texas governor, said in an opening line that
quickly got the crowd on its feet.
   Ms. Richards was emotional, too. She talked about a woman from
Lorena, Texas who had written her a letter that complained that
life has become difficult despite a family income of about $50,000.
   ``I believe people like us have been forgotten in America,'' the
mother of three said in her letter.
   ``Of course you believe you're being forgotten. Because you have
been,'' Ms. Richards said, blaming the Reagan administration.
   She excited both major factions at the convention by heaping
praise on presidential nominee-to-be Michael Dukakis and runner-up
Jesse Jackson.
   The ``Jesse, Jesse'' chant rang out after Ms. Richards called
him ``a leader and a teacher who can open our hearts and minds and
stir our very souls.''
   Dukakis backers chanted ``Duke, Duke,'' when Ms. Richards said
the best traditions of straight-talking Democrats ``live today in
Michael Dukakis.''
   And she had warm words for another Texan, Sen. Lloyd Bentsen,
Dukakis' designated running mate.
   ``He knows how to bring us together by region, by economics, by
example,'' she said of Bentsen. ``And he's already beaten George
Bush once.''
   Bentsen defeated Bush in a 1970 U.S. Senate race.
   Delegates from around the nation, and Dukakis himself, called
the Richards speech a winner.
   ``He said he thought it was great,'' Ms. Richards said after
talking by telephone to Dukakis. ``He wanted to know what he could
say now because I'd taken all his good lines.''
   Charlene Shores of California, one of many delegates who said
they knew little about Ms. Richards before Monday, said the speech
``caught our attention and our hearts.''
   Delegate Sue Rockne of Minnesota said the talk even topped
Cuomo's 1984 keynote.
   ``I love hearing a feminist with a Southern accent,'' Ms. Rockne
said.
   ``I had never heard of her,'' said delegate Rudy Clay of
Indiana. ``You can become a star overnight in this ball game.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0050 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0344EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p PM-CVN-Networks     07-19 0125</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-CVN-Networks,120</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Schedule of Coverage</HEAD>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Here is a schedule of network coverage of the
Democratic National Convention for tonight, all times EDT:
   ABC, CBS and NBC plan live, prime-time coverage of the
convention from 9-11 p.m., with adjustments as news developments
warrant.
   C-SPAN is carrying live, uninterrupted coverage of the entire
convention session, beginning Tuesday at 4:30 p.m.
   CNN also will cover the entire session, interspersed with
commentary and interviews.
   All the network morning shows are originating from Atlanta, as
are PBS' ``MacNeil-Lehrer NewsHour,'' ABC's ``Nightline'' and CBS'
``Nightwatch.''
   Convention events scheduled to take place during the networks'
prime-time coverage Tuesday include a speech by U.S. Sen. Edward
Kennedy, presentation of platform issues and Jesse Jackson's
long-anticipated speech to the delegates.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0051 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0324EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w PM-WashingtoninBrief     07-19 0542</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Washington in Brief,500</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Pentagon Probe Into Airliner Downing Will Last Through July</HEAD>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Pentagon's investigation into the downing
of Iran Air flight 655, originally due to end on Monday, will last
at least until the end of July.
   A Defense Department announcement Monday said Rear Adm. William
M. Fogarty ``has requested additional time to complete his
investigation.''
   Fogarty flew to the Persian Gulf on July 4, the day after the
incident, and has been there since, trying to determine how
officers aboard the USS Vincennes mistook the Iranian A300 Airbus
for an attacking F-14 fighter.
   The Pentagon said he will send all ``findings of fact,
conclusions and recommendations'' to the commander of American
forces in the Persian Gulf, Gen. George B. Crist, who will forward
the report to the Joint Chiefs of Staff. It will then be sent to
Defense Secretary Frank C. Carlucci.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>___</HEAD>
<HEAD>Abortions Further Restricted at Military Hospitals</HEAD>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Doctors at military hospitals will not perform
abortions starting Oct. 1 unless the mother's life is in danger.
   Doctors have been barred since 1979 from performing abortions
paid for by the government unless the life of the mother is
endangered, but were allowed to perform so-called ``pre-paid
abortions'' in ``certain countries in which quality medical care
may not be locally available.''
   A memo obtained Monday signed by Dr. William Mayer, assistant
defense secretary for health affairs, changes the policy. It says
``it might suggest insensitivity to the spirit of the
congressionally enacted policy of withholding government
involvement in the provision of abortions.''
   There were 10,829 abortions performed at military facilities in
1980 and 88 in 1980, after Congress passed the prohibition,
according to a Pentagon audit.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>___</HEAD>
<HEAD>Embezzlement Suspect Released On $500,000 Bond</HEAD>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   An Agency for International Development
employee charged in the embezzlement of $1.2 million in government
funds is free on $500,000 bond after his brother and sister put
their home as collateral.
   William John Burns, an AID financial officer, was arrested last
week on allegations of diverting unused government travel funds and
released from jail on Monday. Government prosecutors opposed
releasing Burns, calling him a ``very serious flight risk.''
   The government has put a restraining order on Burns' bank
account, his home in suburban Burtonsville, Md., as well as five
cars and luxury goods allegedly bought with stolen government funds.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>___</HEAD>
<HEAD>Air Force Challenges Proposed Fine For Radioactive Spill</HEAD>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Air Force is taking issue with a proposed
fine by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for alleged violations
associated with a 1986 spill of radioactive powder at an Ohio
military base, officials say.
   The $102,500 fine was proposed by the NRC last month for what
the agency said was willful failure to report the spill at
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base within 24 hours and for the
internal exposure of an individual to the powder.
   ``The Air Force denies that it violated any of the NRC
regulations in the handling of this matter,'' the Air Force said in
its response to the NRC.
   Air Force spokeswoman June Green said Monday there is
disagreement among NRC workers themselves about the true nature of
the reporting requirement.
   No one was injured in the Sept. 19, 1986 spill of americium-241.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0052 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0559EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-CWA-APRatification     07-19 0108</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-CWA-AP Ratification,0110</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Communications Workers Ratify AP Contract</HEAD>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Communications Department employees of The
Associated Press ratified a new two-year contract, Communications
Workers of America Local 1314 President James Peecook said today.
   Tentative agreement was reached in New York on June 17 after
seven weeks of bargaining.
   Peecook said the new agreement was adopted by a vote of 118-74,
and that negotiated increases would be retroactive to the May 19
expiration date of the old contract.
   CWA Local 1314 has over 300 members who operate, maintain and
install all equipment used by the AP to send and receive stories
and in its other communications endeavors.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0053 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0403EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p PM-CVN--ConventionBriefs     07-19 0936</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-CVN--Convention Briefs,920</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Poll Gives Dukakis Lead Among Hispanic-Americans</HEAD>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Democrat Michael Dukakis holds a 58 percent to 32
percent lead over Republican George Bush among Hispanic voters,
according to a poll released by a Spanish-language television
network.
   The survey of 612 likely Hispanic voters, which had a margin of
error of 4.7 percentage points, showed the Massachusetts governor
held a better than 2-1 margin among Mexican-Americans and Puerto
Rican-Americans, Univision said.
   But the vice president is favored by 80 percent of
Cuban-American voters _ a traditionally strong Republican
community, the network said.
   Overall, 10 percent of the Hispanic voters were undecided.
   The survey was conducted July 1-13, using a combination of
door-to-door and telephone interviews, Univision said.
   An ABC survey of 458 registered voters conducted Sunday,
meanwhile, found Dukakis and Vice President George Bush in a dead
heat among all voters, with 45 percent for Dukakis and 46 percent
for Bush.
   The survey, with a margin of error of five points, found Bush
doing better with women than in past surveys and found Dukakis
receiving no immediate benefit from the selection of Sen. Lloyd
Bentsen of Texas as a running mate.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>Convicted Ohio Delegate Gets To Stay; Poor Attendance Gets Other</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   Booted
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Poor attendance at Democratic Party functions,
but not a criminal conviction, is grounds for dismissal from the
Ohio delegation to the Democratic National Convention.
   State party chairman James Ruvolo on Monday replaced former
State Sen. Marigene Valiquette as one of Ohio's ``super delegates''
following criticism of her continued absences from party events
over the last several months.
   But Ruvolo took no action to remove a Cleveland labor leader who
is appealing a felony conviction for illegally using union money
for a political purpose.
   Ruvolo had reportedly been under pressure to replace Martin J.
Hughes, who has attended every convention since 1964. The chairman
said that national party rules contain no provision for the removal
of Democratic National Committee members.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>Handicapped Delegates Plan To Demonstrate</HEAD>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Handicapped delegates and alternates are facing
their normal share of troubles getting around during the Democratic
National Convention, says one of them, Carolyn Emerson of
Minneapolis.
   ``This really is no worse than normal,'' said Emerson, who must
walk with crutches because of a childhood bout with polio. Emerson,
41, said Monday she was an hour late for a meeting of disabled
delegates and alternates because of transportation problems.
   Activists for the disabled were planning a demonstration today
to protest rejection of their platform proposals, said delegate Tom
Isaac of Aspen, Colo.
   The advocates want the platform to include an endorsement of the
Americans with Disabilities Bill of 1988, which they say would end
discrimination against disabled people.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>Dukakis Campaign Plans 10,000 Fund-raising House Parties Thursday</HEAD>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   When Michael Dukakis takes center stage Thursday
night to accept his presidential nomination, his fund-raising team
will be trying to coordinate 10,000 house parties intended to bring
his campaign into the nation's living rooms.
   ``It's a way of getting people involved. Everyone can get
involved,'' said Kristin Demong, staff director of the Democratic
Victory Fund, the money-raising operation recently created by
merging the finance sections of the Democratic National Committee
and the Dukakis presidential campaign.
   Against the backdrop of a general election fund-raising goal of
at least $50 million, the house parties _ with a projected average
donation of $250 a head _ may not produce more than a fraction of
the fall total.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>Celebs To Grace DNC Stage</HEAD>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   They're outnumbered by the politicians, but the
stars are coming out to shine at the Democratic National Convention.
   Starting with humorist Garrison Keillor's recitation of the
Pledge of Allegiance and closing with music by gospel singer
Jennifer Holliday, the convention has so many celebrities it almost
threatens to be entertaining.
   Some of the entertainment Thursday will come from two members of
Gov. Michael Dukakis' clan. Cousin Olympia Dukakis, Oscar winner as
best supporting actress in the film ``Moonstruck,'' will introduce
the governor.
   Harry Ellis Dickson, his father-in-law and former associate
conductor of the Boston Pops, will conduct the ``Fanfare for
Michael Dukakis'' by composer John Williams, who also is the Pops'
conductor.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>Callers Can Listen To Convention Uninterrupted On 900 Phone Number</HEAD>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   People who don't want to miss any part of the
Democratic National Convention because of a beer commercial or some
other interruption may dial for a live feed at 1-900-909-DUKE.
   Uninterrupted convention coverage is available at a cost of $2
for the first minute and 35 cents for each minute after that, on a
national 900 telephone number.
   The service is offered by Elliott Communications, the
Washington-based information firm behind the number.
   ``Dial Duke'' callers will hear convention proceedings live from
the podium. An announcer will identify speakers and place events in
context.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>Union Calls Off Picketing After Talking To DNC's Kirk</HEAD>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A union trying to organize downtown janitors says
it is suspending its picketing of selected social events associated
with the Democratic convention in a truce arranged by party
chairman Paul Kirk.
   John Sweeney, president of the Service Employees International
Union, on Monday announced the ``pause'' in its campaign after Kirk
telephoned him the previous night relaying a message that Atlanta
architect and developer John Portman had expressed a new
willingness to negotiate.
   The union had focused on Portman's Peachtree Center properties
as its initial target in trying to unionize some 1,500 janitors in
56 downtown Atlanta office buildings. The center is where many of
the private receptions associated with the convention are being
held.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0054 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0219EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i BC-Japan-Stocks     07-19 0027</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Japan-Stocks,0026</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Stocks Plunge In Tokyo</HEAD>
<DATELINE>TOKYO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Nikkei Stock Average closed at 27,149.03
points, down 513.09 points, on the Tokyo Stock Exchange Tuesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0055 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0408EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p BC-CVN--RichardsText 6Takes   07-19 0481</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-CVN--Richards Text, 6 Takes,500-2680</2ND_LINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Here is a transcript of the keynote address as
delivered by Texas Treasurer Ann Richards at the Democratic
National Convention Monday night.
   Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.
   Buenas noches, mis amigos!
   I am delighted to be here with you this evening because after
listening to George Bush all these years, I figured you needed to
know what a real Texas accent sounds like.
   Twelve years ago, Barbara Jordan, another Texas woman, made the
keynote address to this convention _ and two women in 160 years is
about par for the course.
   But, if you give us a chance, we can perform.
   After all, Ginger Rogers did everything that Fred Astaire did.
She just did it backwards and in high heels.
   I want to announce to this nation that in a little more than 100
days, the
Reagan-Meese-Deaver-Nofziger-Poindexter-North-Weinberger-Watt-Gorsuch-Lavelle-St
ockman-Haig-Bork-Noriega-George Bush will be over.
   You know, tonight I feel a little like I did when I played
basketball in the eighth grade. I thought I looked real cute in my
uniform and then I heard a boy yell from the bleachers, ``Make that
basket, bird legs.''
   My greatest fear is that same guy is somewhere in the audience
tonight and he's going to cut me down to size.
   Where I grew up there really wasn't much tolerance for
self-importance, people who put on airs.
   I was born during the Depression in a little community just
outside Waco and I grew up listening to Franklin Roosevelt on the
radio.
   Well, it was back then that I came to understand the small
truths and hardships that bind neighbors together.
   Those were real people with real problems.
   And they had real dreams about getting out of the Depression.
   I can remember summer nights when we'd put down what we called a
Baptist pallet and we listened to the grown-ups talk.
   I can still hear the sound of the dominoes clicking on the
marble slab my daddy found for a tabletop.
   I can still hear the laughter of the men telling jokes you
weren't supposed to hear _ telling about how big that old buck deer
was, laughing about mama putting Clorox in the well when the frog
fell in.
   They talked about war and Washington and what this country
needed.
   They talked straight talk.
   And it came from people living their lives as best they could.
   And that's what we're going to do tonight.
   We're going to tell how the cow ate the cabbage.
   I got a letter last week from a young mother in Lorena, Texas,
and I want to read a part of it to you.
   She writes, ``Our worries go from pay day to pay day... just
like millions of others, and we have two fairly decent incomes. But
I worry about how I'm going to pay the rising car insurance and
food.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>MORE</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0056 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0408EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p BC-CVN--RichardsText 1stadd   07-19 0510</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-CVN--Richards Text, 1st add,530</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>ATLANTA: and food.</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   ``I pray my kids don't have a growth spurt from August to
December so I don't have to buy new jeans. We buy clothes at the
budget stores and we have them fray, and fade, and stretch in the
first wash.
   ``We ponder and try to figure out how we're going to pay for
college, and braces, and tennis shoes. We don't take vacations and
we don't go out go out to eat.
   ``Please don't think me ungrateful. We have jobs, and a nice
place to live, and we're healthy.
   ``We're the people you see every day in the grocery store. We
obey the laws, we pay our taxes, we fly our flags on holidays.
   ``And we plod along, trying to make it better for ourselves and
our children and our parents. We aren't vocal anymore. I think
maybe we're too tired.
   ``I believe that people like us are forgotten in America.''
   Well, of course you believe you're forgotten. Because you have
been.
   This Republican administration treats us as if we were pieces of
a puzzle that can't fit together.
   They've tried to put us into compartments and separate us from
each other.
   Their political theory is, ``divide and conquer.''
   They've suggested time and time again that what is of interest
to one group of Americans is not of interest to anyone else. We've
been isolated. We've been lumped into that sad phraseology called
``special interests.''
   They've told farmers that they were selfish, that they would
drive up food prices if they asked the government to intervene on
behalf of the family farm, and we watched farms go on the auction
block while we bought food from foreign countries. Well, that's
wrong.
   They told working mothers it's all their fault that families are
falling apart _ because they had to go to work to keep their kids
in jeans, tennis shoes and college. And they're wrong.
   They told American labor they were trying to ruin free
enterprise by asking for 60 days notice of plant closings, and
they're wrong.
   And they told the auto industry, and the steel industry, and the
timber industry, and the oil industry, companies being threatened
by foreign products flooding this country, that you're
protectionist if you think the government should enforce our trade
laws. And they're wrong.
   When they belittle us for demanding clean air and clean water,
for trying to save the oceans or the ozone layer, that's wrong.
   No wonder we feel isolated. And confused. We want answers and
their answer is that something is wrong with you.
   Well, nothing's wrong with you. Nothing's wrong with you that
you can't fix in November.
   We've been told _ we've been told that the interests of the
South and the Southwest are not the same interests as the North and
the Northeast.
   They pit one group against the other. They've divided this
country. And in our isolation we think government isn't going to
help us, and that we're alone in our feelings. We feel forgotten.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>MORE</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0057 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0408EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p BC-CVN--RichardsText 2ndadd   07-19 0537</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-CVN--Richards Text, 2nd add,560</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>ATLANTA: feel forgotten.</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   Well, the fact is that we are not an isolated piece of their
puzzle.
   We are one nation. We are the United States of America!
   Now, we Democrats believe that America is still the country of
fair play, that we can come out of a small town or a poor
neighborhood and have the same chance as anyone else and it doesn't
matter whether we are black or Hispanic or disabled or a woman.
   We believe that America is a country where small business owners
must succeed because they are the bedrock, backbone of our economy.
   We believe that our kids deserve good day care and public
schools. We believe our kids deserve public schools where students
can learn, and teachers can teach.
   We want to believe that our parents will have a good retirement
_ and that we will, too.
   We Democrats believe that Social Security is a pact that cannot
be broken. We want to believe that we can live out our lives
without the terrible fear that an illness is going to bankrupt us
and our children.
   We Democrats believe that America can overcome any problem,
including the dreaded disease called AIDS.
   We believe that America is still a country where there is more
to life than just a constant struggle for money.
   And we believe that America must have leaders who show us that
our struggles amount to something and contribute to something
larger, leaders who want us to be all that we can be.
   We want leaders like Jesse Jackson.
   Jesse Jackson is a leader and a teacher who can open our hearts
and open our minds and stir our very souls.
   And he has taught us that we are as good as our capacity for
caring. Caring about the drug problem, caring about crime, caring
about education and caring about each other.
   Now, in contrast, the greatest nation of the free world has had
a leader for eight straight years that has pretended that he cannot
hear our questions over the noise of the helicopter.
   And we know he doesn't want to answer. But we have a lot of
questions. And when we get our questions asked, or there's a leak,
or an investigation, the only answer we get is, ``I don't know,''
or ``I forgot.''
   But you wouldn't accept that answer from your children. I
wouldn't. Don't tell me ``you don't know'' or ``you forgot.''
   We're not going to have the America that we want until we elect
leaders who are going to tell the truth. Not most days _ but every
day. Leaders who don't forget what they don't want to remember.
   And, for eight straight years George Bush hasn't displayed the
slightest interest in anything we care about.
   And now that he's after a job that he can't get appointed to,
he's like Columbus discovering America. He's found child care. He's
found education.
   Poor George. He can't help it _ he was born with a silver foot
in his mouth.
   Well no wonder, no wonder we can't figure it out. Because the
leadership of this nation is telling us one thing on TV and doing
something entirely different.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>MORE</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0058 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0409EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p BC-CVN--RichardsText 3rdadd   07-19 0527</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-CVN--Richards Text, 3rd add,540</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>ATLANTA: entirely different.</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   They tell us, they tell us that they're fighting a war against
terrorists. And then we find that the White House is selling arms
to the ayatollah.
   They tell us that they're fighting a war on drugs, then people
come on TV and testify that the CIA, and the DEA, and the FBI knew
they were flying drugs into America all along. And they're
negotiating with a dictator who is shoveling cocaine into this
country like crazy. I guess that's their Central American strategy.
   Now, they tell us that employment rates are great and that
they're for equal opportunity, but we know it takes two paychecks
to make ends meet today, when it used to take one. And the
opportunity they're so proud of is low-wage, dead-end jobs.
   And there is no major city in America where you cannot see
homeless men sitting in parking lots holding signs that say, ``I
will work for food.''
   Now, my friends, we really are at a crucial point in American
history. Under this administration, we have devoted our resources
to making this country a military colossus, but we've let our
economic lines of defense fall into disrepair.
   The debt of this nation is greater than it has ever been in our
history. We fought a world war on less debt than the Republicans
have built up in the last eight years.
   You know, it's kind of like that brother-in-law who drives a
flashy new car but he's always borrowing money from you to make the
payments.
   Let's take what they are proudest of, that is their stand on
defense. We Democrats are committed to a strong America. And, quite
frankly, when our leaders say to us, we need a new weapons system,
our inclination is to say, ``Well, they must be right.''
   But when we pay billions for planes that won't fly, billions for
tanks that won't fire, and billions for systems that won't work,
that old dog won't hunt.
   And you don't have to be from Waco to know that when the
Pentagon makes crooks rich and doesn't make America strong, that
it's a bum deal.
   Now, I'm going to tell you, I'm really glad that our young
people missed the Depression, and missed the great big war. But I
do regret that they missed the leaders that I knew.
   Leaders who told us when things were tough, and that we would
have to sacrifice, and these difficulties might last awhile.
   They didn't tell us things were hard for us because we were
different, or isolated, or special interests. They brought us
together and they gave us a sense of national purpose.
   They gave us Social Security. And they told us we're setting up
a system where we could pay our own money in and when the time came
for our retirement, we could take the money out.
   People in rural areas were told that we deserved to have
electric lights, and they were going to harness the energy that was
necessary to give us electricity so my grandmama didn't have to
carry that old coal oil lamp around.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>MORE</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0059 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0409EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p BC-CVN--RichardsText 4thadd   07-19 0540</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-CVN--Richards Text, 4th add,550</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>ATLANTA: lamp around.</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   And they told us that they were going to guarantee that when we
put our money in the bank, that the money was going to be there,
and it was going to be insured.
   They did not lie to us.
   And I think one of the saving graces of Democrats is that we are
candid. We talk straight talk. We tell people what we think.
   And that tradition, and those values live today in Michael
Dukakis from Massachusetts.
   Michael Dukakis knows that this country is on the edge of a
great new era, that we're not afraid of change, that we're for
thoughtful, truthful, strong leadership.
   Behind his calm there's an impatience to unify this country and
get on with the future.
   His instincts are deeply American, they're tough and they're
generous. And personally, I have to tell you that I have never met
a man who had a more remarkable sense about what is really
important in life.
   And then there's my friend and my teacher for many years, Sen.
Lloyd Bentsen.
   And I couldn't be prouder, both as a Texan and as a Democrat,
because Lloyd Bentsen understands America _ from the barrio to the
boardroom. He knows how to bring us together, by regions _ by
economics _ by example.
   And he's already beaten George Bush once.
   So, when it comes right down to it, this election is a contest
between those who are satisfied with what they have _ and those who
know we can do better.
   That's what this election is really all about.
   It's about the American dream. Those who want to keep it for the
few _ and those of us who know it must be nurtured and passed along.
   I'm a grandmother now. And I have one nearly perfect
granddaughter named Lily. And when I hold that grandbaby, I feel
the continuity of life that unites us, that binds generation to
generation, that ties us with each other.
   And sometimes I spread that Baptist pallet out on the floor and
Lily and I roll a ball back and forth.
   And I think of all the families like mine, like the one in
Lorena, Texas, like the ones that nurture children all across
America.
   And as I look at Lily, I know that it is within families that we
learn both the need to respect individual human dignity and to work
together for our common good. Within our families, within our
nation, it is the same.
   As we sit there, I wonder if she'll ever grasp the changes I've
seen in my life. If she'll ever believe that there was a time when
blacks could not drink from public water fountains, when Hispanic
children were punished for speaking Spanish in the public schools,
and women couldn't vote.
   I think of all the political fights I've fought, and all the
compromises I've had to accept as part payment.
   And I think of all the small victories that have added up to
national triumphs. And all the things that never would have
happened and all the people who would have been left behind if we
had not reasoned, and fought, and won those battles together.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>MORE</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0060 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0410EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p BC-CVN--RichardsText 5thadd   07-19 0152</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-CVN--Richards Text, 5th add,150</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>ATLANTA: battles together.</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   And I will tell Lily that those triumphs were Democratic Party
triumphs.
   I want so much to tell Lily how far we've come. You and I.
   And as the ball rolls back and forth, I want to tell her how
very lucky she is. That for all our difference, we're still the
greatest nation on this good earth.
   And our strength lies in the men and women who go to work every
day, who struggle to balance their family and their jobs, and who
should never, ever be forgotten.
   I just hope that _ like her grandparents and her
great-grandparents before _ that Lily goes on to raise her kids
with the promise that echoes in homes all across America:
   That we can do better.
   And that's what this election is all about.
   Thank you very much.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>End Richards Text _ 6 Takes</HEAD>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0061 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0415EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p BC-CVN--CarterText 3Takes   07-19 0491</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-CVN--Carter Text, 3 Takes,480-1680</2ND_LINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Here is a transcript of the speech by former
President Jimmy Carter to the Democratic National Convention Monday
night.
   When we left Washington 7{ years ago, I invited all my
Democratic friends to come to Georgia to see us. But I never
expected that you would all come _ and at the same time.
   Well, this is a grand gathering of Democrats. But there's going
to be an even greater one in January when we all meet in Washington
to celebrate the inauguration of Michael Dukakis as president and
Lloyd Bentsen as vice president.
   Oh, yes, I almost forgot. I have one announcement to make _
which, like a lot of other things this year may come as a bit of a
surprise to the incumbent vice president. My name is Jimmy Carter,
and I am not running for president! Did you hear that George?
   Well, I have to admit there are some parallels with both of our
final candidates. I'm a Southerner, I'm a Baptist, some people even
like to say I love to preach, and my political career was made
possible by the civil rights movement. That does sound familiar.
   There have been a lot of comparisons made between Mike Dukakis
and myself. But I know one thing for sure. Mike Dukakis is also
going from the State House to the White House.
   Our party has been blessed with good candidates this year. And
not just this year. Wouldn't Ed Muskie have made a great president?
   Jesse Jackson has stirred the soul of our country, he's given
hope to millions, and he's healed wounds that have too long divided
us one from another. He is an inspired leader, he is destined for
further greatness. Jesse, we salute you.
   Mike Dukakis ran a brilliant campaign of substance and respect
for the intelligence of the American people. He'll be a great
leader for our country.
   Mike is being compared to John F. Kennedy. He is from
Massachusetts. He has chosen a running mate from Texas. And he's
going to defeat an incumbent Republican vice president.
   Mike Dukakis deserves that comparison. But he reminds me of
other great leaders of our party as well. Like Woodrow Wilson, he's
an idealist who believes we can be true to our own best selves in a
brutal world.
   Like Harry Truman, he's a tough fighter.
   Like Franklin Delano Roosevelt, he's an innovator with the
courage to experiment and the confidence to find solutions.
   And let's be clear about one thing:
   We want Mike Dukakis and Lloyd Bentsen to be elected _ not just
so Democrats can take office in Washington, but because we know
that change is long overdue. We want a federal deficit brought
under control. We want a coherent foreign policy. And we want to
bring back to Washington people who are more interested in public
service than they are in private gain.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>MORE</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0062 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0415EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p BC-CVN--CarterText 1stadd   07-19 0497</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-CVN--Carter Text, 1st add,500</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>ATLANTA: private gain.</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   Each of us pauses on occasion to reassess our own lives: to look
at what we have become, the mistakes we've made, and to decide what
we would like to be.
   I think, as a nation, we make this same kind of reassessment
when we elect a president. Now is the time to reconsider our
opportunities and our challenges _ to make a change _ and to decide
what we want for the future. Especially to decide what we want for
the future.
   A democracy is always an unfinished creation. Each generation
must rediscover the meaning of America's dream.
   Tonight I'm thinking not only about the next president, but
about our nation's children and how they will live in years to
come. Rosalynn and I have six grandchildren. What kind of world
will we leave to them and to other young people?
   In thinking about the past eight years and looking ahead, let's
recall the words of a great American president, Franklin Roosevelt.
Listen to what he said:
   ``Governments can err. Presidents do make mistakes; but...better
the occasional faults of a government that lives in a spirit of
charity than the consistent omissions of a government frozen in the
ice of its own indifference.''
   For the sake of our children, for the sake of our future, we
must melt that ice.
   It's time to reach out for the homeless, to families broken by
drug addiction and disease.
   It's time to clean up those Pentagon scandals and build a lean,
tough, competent military force.
   It's time to have a Justice Department that fights for civil
rights.
   It's time to quit living on credit and expecting our children to
pay the bills some day.
   It's time to tackle the continuing problems of poverty, of a
decaying environment, of the bankruptcy of family farms.
   And it's time to invest in the education and care of our
children.
   Because that's the kind of nation we are. That's the kind of
people we are.
   In some ways, America is a big family. A family does not ignore
the sickness or pain of any of its children. A family gives all its
members help and love. That is the kind of families we have _ and
that's the kind of nation we want.
   And a good family plans for its children's future _ and that
means education. Eight years ago, no American student was deprived
of a college education because of financial reasons. But now, for
many young Americans, these opportunities have been wiped out.
Starting in 1989, that is going to change.
   We Democrats do not fear change. We welcome it. Because change
means hope. Change means life. Above all, change means opportunity.
   And no changes are more profound than those taking place in the
Soviet Union. The world is fascinated with the news from Moscow.
General Secretary Gorbachev has made move after move that would
have seemed unthinkable a decade ago.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>MORE</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0063 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0416EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p BC-CVN--CarterText 2ndadd   07-19 0697</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-CVN--Carter Text, 2nd add,700</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>ATLANTA: decade ago.</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   It is still too early to assess the permanence or sincerity of
these changes. We must never forget that Mr. Gorbachev's actions
are designed to help his own country, not ours. Certainly the
competition between our superpowers will remain. But it can become
more peaceful and more constructive. And in that kind of
competition, the United States of America has all the advantages.
   We have a free and creative system of government. We are strong
economically. Our farm lands are highly productive. We espouse
basic human freedoms and democracy. We are a religious people. We
are on the cutting edge of technological and scientific progress.
Our neighbors are our friends, and not our slaves.
   Building on these foundations, our next president must regain
America's world leadership as the acknowledged champion of peace,
of arms control, of human rights, and of justice.
   The free world looks to us for leadership, but we cannot lead by
using military force to impose our will on other people. We can
best fight communism in Central America by joining with other
democratic nations to make sure that the Sandinistas and the
Contras carry out all the provisions of the Arias peace plan _ and
that the people of Central America have freedom from both
oppression and war.
   We have other responsibilities far from home.
   Camp David is not just a weekend retreat; it is a symbol of the
courage and determination of two great leaders _ an Egyptian and an
Israeli _ to make peace. Arabs and Jews still cry out for peace,
but without a strong and persistent involvement of the president of
the United States, they will not have peace. Starting in 1989, that
will change.
   It's time to renew our environmental commitments. The greenhouse
effect, the destruction of the ozone layer, acid rain are no longer
just theoretical possibilities _ they are immediate threats to all
of us. Beginning in 1989, a new Democratic president will work
other leaders on earth to ensure our children, and to ensure us, a
decent planet on which to live.
   This nation deserves a foreign policy based on the values that
unite us as Americans _ a foreign policy that can win the support,
for a change, of both political parties. The consequences of
unilateral decisions made in the White House bring back to us vivid
and unpleasant memories; U.S. Marines dying in Lebanon; harbors
illegally mined and Contras illegally armed; ransom paid to the
ayatollah in weapons; appeasement in the face of apartheid in South
Africa.
   Starting in 1989, that is also going to change.
   Ours is the strongest nation on earth _ but sometimes we forget
what measures our strength. America is strong when we are for peace
instead of belligerence. America is strong when we are the leading
defender of human rights. America is strong when we reach out to
the suffering. America is strong when we work with other nations to
reduce nuclear arsenals and to curtail the world's horrendous trade
in deadly weapons. America is strong when we protect the green
planet that gives us life.
   My fellow Democrats, our party is best equipped to meet the
challenge of change because we are the party of change.
   We are the party of diversity. Just look around this hall _
you'll see all the beautiful variety that makes America strong and
special and great.
   Because we are so inclusive, many of the conflicts of American
life are fought _ and creatively resolved _ within our ranks.
   That is our strength. But it is also our danger.
   That is why, if I had to give you just one special message
tonight, I would summarize it in a single word:
   Unity.
   One more time. One more time so you won't forget: Unity.
   Let us go forth from this convention united behind our
candidates and our ideals _ and with our eyes on the prize.
   United, united, we Democrats will bring a great future to
America.
   Our grandchildren _ and yours _ will be grateful.
   Thank you. God bless you. Good night. On to victory. Thank you.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>End Carter Text _ 3 Takes</HEAD>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0064 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0250EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i PM-Mexico-Challenges Bjt   07-19 0744</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Mexico-Challenges, Bjt,0769</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>President-Elect To Confront A Bundle Of Troubles</HEAD>
<HEAD>An AP News Analysis</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By ISAAC A. LEVI</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>MEXICO CITY (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   From triple-digit inflation to a crushing
$104 billion foreign debt, President-elect Carlos Salinas de
Gortari faces a series of challenges that would have made some of
his 60 predecessors wince.
   Horrendous unemployment, a ballooning population and growing
discontent with the political party that has run Mexico since 1929
further threaten to make Salinas' inaugural term something less
than a picnic in the park.
   By the time Salinas leaves office in six years, Mexico's
population is expected to have grown by about 10 million to 91
million, all crammed in an area three times the size of Texas.
   Unless he can reverse the trends, that growth will mean more
people for fewer jobs.
   With about half the current population under age 16, it is
estimated that by the time Salinas' term ends, about 1 million
young people a year will be looking for work for the first time.
   A recent study by the National Manufacturers Chamber showed that
only 350,000 jobs were created last year, a drop from the previous
year.
   Another study, by Salinas' Institutional Revolutionary Party,
said roughly 28 percent of Mexico's labor force of 47 million
people lack steady jobs and 14 percent are jobless _ a total of 42
percent.
   Inflation, which reached a 159.2 percent annual rate last year,
has eroded the average purchasing power of wages by more than half.
   Salinas says one of his priorities will be to restore the value
of earnings.
   ``We will have to provide that and also housing, education,
health care and other basic services,'' not only to cut deficits
but also for the 6 million new jobseekers who will emerge during
his administration, Salinas said in a recent interview with the
television network Televisa.
   If foreign debt payments become too burdensome they will be
renegotiated or suspended altogether, he added.
   A survey by the governing party think tank _ the Institute of
Political, Economic and Social Studies _ indicates that gross fixed
investment has been dropping by an annual average of nearly 5
percent, with a drop of 12 percent in 1986.
   For decades, illegal emigration of millions of Mexicans to the
United States acted as an escape valve for the population problem.
But a 1987 law in the United States that fines employers who
knowingly hire illegal aliens could shut or narrow the aperture.
   As budget and planning secretary for five years in outgoing
President Miguel de la Madrid's administration, Salinas was
associated with belt-tightening and other unpopular measures.
   Both the governing party's labor wing and its old guard strongly
opposed his nomination. So Salinas is now busy trying to mend
fences, especially with Fidel Velazquez, the 88-year-old leader of
the Mexican Labor Federation.
   The centrist Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, has won
every major election since it was founded in 1929, its critics
claim it often resorts to ballot fraud.
   Charges of vote fraud were louder than ever this year as the
government delayed release of results until a week after the July 6
balloting, and then said Salinas won with just over 50 percent of
the vote _ 20 percent less than previous PRI presidential victories.
   The PRI's patronage system still goes deep into the country's
grass roots, but its power base has been eroding under pressure
from growing forces on both the left and right.
   Many say the party has been unable _ or unwilling _ to meet
Mexico's increasingly greater demands for more orderly government,
less corruption, greater economic development and more efficient
state services.
   The disillusionment cuts across social and political lines.
People are clamoring against everything from a self-muzzled press
to deficient law enforcement to lack of environmental protection to
neglect for women's rights.
   The conservative National Action Party and the leftist coalition
National Democratic Front have been addressing these issues and
picking up votes.
   For the first time in decades, the governing party's
presidential candidate actually had to campaign on the basis of
concrete solutions to specific issues, from smog in Mexico City to
the drug problem to a growing crime rate.
   Salinas acknowledges these challenges, saying reforms and
modernization will be the priorities of his administration.
   He'll begin trying on Dec. 1, the date he officially takes
office.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>EDITOR'S NOTE </NOTE>
<TEXT>
   Isaac A. Levi has been covering Mexico for The
Associated Press for the past 14 years.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0065 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0423EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-WaroftheWorlds Bjt   07-19 0593</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-War of the Worlds, Bjt,0608</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>`War of the Worlds' Anniversary Launched With `Martian Punch,'
Song</HEAD>
<HEAD>LaserPhoto NY8</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JO ASTRID GLADING</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WEST WINDSOR, N.J. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The 50th anniversary celebration of
the ``War of the Worlds'' broadcast, Orson Welles' radio play about
an alien invasion that terrified America, was launched with
``Martian punch'' and a song.
   Welles and his Mercury Theater created a sensation the night of
Oct. 30, 1938, with their broadcast based on H.G. Wells' tale of a
Martian invasion of Earth. Despite disclaimers it was fictitious,
the realistic-sounding broadcast on CBS created a nationwide panic.
   The ``invasion'' began at Grovers Mill, chosen at random by
scriptwriter Howard Koch, and residents of the hamlet in West
Windsor Township near Princeton have been reminded annually of its
dubious place in radio history.
   In the coming months, the group organizing the celebration hopes
to remind the world of the broadcast, heard by an estimated 6
million people, and the role it played in redefining radio's power.
   The Fiftieth Anniversary Commemorative Committee for War of the
Worlds Inc. began the festivities Monday with the debut of ``Over
The Airwaves, The Ballad of Grovers Mill.''
   The song, written locally, opens with a brief excerpt from the
Halloween broadcast, then relates the blurring of the line between
reality and fantasy that brought ``panic in the streets.''
   ``On the other side of Grovers Mill, there's a pond where the
water glows. What landed on that Jersey site, I'm sure nobody
knows,'' four women in leotards sang as reporters listened.
   The song is to be released to radio stations around the country
this week, and will be the subject of a music video, according to
the committee.
   Participants were offered ``Martian punch,'' an eerie green
concoction of vodka, fruit juices and liqueur, with melon balls
bobbing on top.
   Committee Chairman Douglas Forrester, who was born 15 years
after the broadcast, said he used to hear only secondhand accounts
of the terror the show evoked, but says people are finally ``
'fessing up to being scared'' as word of his group's work gets out.
   ``I think one of the acid tests of our credibility is we are
finally getting first-person accounts from people who had the
bejabbers scared out of them,'' said Forrester, director of
pensions for New Jersey and a former mayor of West Windsor.
   According to news accounts of the '38 panic, thousands of people
headed for the hills, causing massive traffic jams, and panicked
listeners jammed phone lines to police. In Grovers Mill, farmers
unfamiliar with local landmarks fired buckshot into a water tower,
believing it was a giant Martian war machine.
   Forrester said a man who was on a hunting trip in upstate New
York when ``War of the Worlds'' was broadcast said some members of
his hunting party grabbed their guns and headed home to fight the
Martians. Others, deciding it was too late to save their families,
headed for the Canadian border.
   By Oct. 30's closing ceremonies, the committee plans to have
installed a bronze relief at the site of the Martian ``landing,''
depicting Welles, the Martians and an American family huddled
around a radio.
   The sculpture is being funded with a $15,000 state grant.
   The group plans to sell souveniers, including buttons and bumper
stickers warning ``the Martians are coming again,'' Forrester said.
   Also planned is a dinner to raise money for the commemorative
effort, the restoration of the pond at the ``landing site'' and a
scholarship fund named for scriptwriter Koch, who lives in
Woodstock, N.Y.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0066 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0307EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i AM-Japan-Markets 3rdLd-Writethru   07-19 0455</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Japan-Markets, 3rd Ld - Writethru,f0001,0464</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Stocks Tumble, Dollar Lower</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: LEADS with five grafs to UPDATE with closing prices; picks up
3rd graf pvs: The last ...</NOTE>
<DATELINE>TOKYO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Stock prices took the largest drop of the year
Tuesday on the Tokyo Stock Exchange and the dollar also dropped
sharply against the Japanese yen.
   The Nikkei Stock Average of 225 selected issues, which lost
251.67 points Monday, took another major drop of 513.09 points, or
1.89 percent Tuesday, closing at 27,149.03.
   It was the largest one-day decline of the index since December
26, 1987, when the index fell 587.50 points.
   In the foreign exchange market, the U.S. currency, a 1.75 yen
winner Monday, closed at 133.85 yen, down 1.30 yen from Monday's
close.
   After opening at 134.30 yen, the currency moved in a range of
133.70-134.38 yen.
   The last time the Nikkei average posted such a sharp drop was on
Dec. 26, when it had a 587.50-point decline for the entire session.
   Stock brokers attributed the sharp decline in the key market
barometer to drops in steel shares following an overnight fall in
New York.
   They also noted that oil prices rose sharply in overseas markets
because Iran's announcement that it would accept a United Nation's
call for a cease-fire in its nearly 8-year-old war with Iraq.
   ``Steel shares which had been propping up the market could not
hold their position any more and finally went down today (Tuesday)
and that put the entire market on a decline,'' said Kiichi Nishida
of Kidder Peabody in Tokyo. ``But shares directly related to the
Gulf situation have not moved too much so far.''
   Another broker at a major Japanese securities firm said the
market has entered a transitional period.
   ``On today's (Tuesday) market, a 500-point drop is within the
range of adjustment,'' he said, speaking on condition of anonymity.
``From here, investors will find other shares which they can depend
on in place of steel shares. Heavy electronic shares are likely to
be a new target.''
   On the foreign exchange market, the dollar opened lower and
continued declining against the yen throughout the morning session.
The dollar, which was up by 1.75 yen on Monday, opened at 134.69
yen, down from Monday's 135.15 yen, and traded mainly in the 133.95
yen to 134.38 yen range during the morning session.
   Currency dealers said the dollar declined mainly because of
early morning speculation on whether the Bank of Japan would
intervene in the market and sell dollars.
   ``The speculation lead to a one-sided selling of the dollar,''
said a exchange dealer at a major U.S. bank in Tokyo, speaking on
condition of anonymity. ``And the situation in New York also helped
the dollar go down further.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0067 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0518EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-Contras     07-19 0471</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Contras,0487</2ND_LINE>
<BYLINE>Hardliner Military Officer Wins Key Role In Contra Leadership
^By ROBERT GLASS</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>SANTO DOMINGO, Dominican Republic (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A controversial
hardliner in the guerrilla war against Nicaragua's leftist
government has become the first military man to win a key role in
the rebel leadership.
   Col. Enrique Bermudez, who survived an ouster attempt in April,
joins a seven-member Contra directorate that oversees the
U.S.-backed insurgency against the Sandinista government.
   The 56-year-old professional soldier, a former colonel in the
Nicaraguan National Guard under ex-dictator Anastasio Somoza, was
elected by a 44-2 vote Monday by an assembly of rebel delegates
meeting here.
   Three of the 54 assembly members abstained and five were absent
when the vote was taken on the second day of the assembly's
three-day meeting in this Caribbean capital.
   Bermudez ran unopposed as an independent candidate for a
one-year term on the directorate, which sets overall policy for the
Nicaraguan resistance.
   He pledged to unify the exiled movement, which has been split by
infighting and has struggled to stay financially afloat since
Congress halted military aid in February.
   ``Today, more than ever, I offer my spirit and goodwill ... to
strengthen our movement,'' Bermudez said. ``To our Marxist-Leninist
enemy, we promise a hard battle.''
   The Contras have been fighting a seven-year war to overthrow the
government of Nicaragua's President Daniel Ortega.
   Bermudez insisted he would confine himself to military affairs.
   Although all seven directors have equal power under assembly
rules, senior director Adolfo Calero had been widely regarded as
the movement's de facto political head.
   Calero was re-elected with 36 votes to 16 for his conservative
rival, Fernando Aguero Rocha, with two abstentions. There had been
some speculation that he could lose his seat in a power struggle
with Bermudez.
   Calero, 56, said he expected Bermudez to confine himself to
military matters, and said he was satisfied with the election
results.
   Bermudez' position was strengthened with the defeat Monday night
of incumbent director Pedro Joaquin Chamorro, who lost his seat by
a 31-20 vote with three abstentions, to Wilfredo Montalvan, 42.
   Chamorro and Calero tried but failed to strip Bermudez of his
military command in April when Bermudez fired six regional Contra
commanders for mutiny.
   Chamorro said talk of making Bermudez a defense minister for the
directorate was a ``mask'' for the military chief's ambition to
gain absolute control of the movement.
   ``I don't think he has total control yet, but that is clearly
his intention,'' Chamorro said after the election.
   Bermudez' closest ally on the directorate, Aristides Sanchez,
was re-elected, along with Alfredo Cesar, who has supported the
military leader's candidacy.
   The other newly elected directors were Roberto Ferrey, replacing
his sister, Azucena, who decided not to seek re-election; and
Wycliffe Diego, who fills a vacant seat representing the Atlantic
Coast Miskito Indians and Creoles.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0068 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0527EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-Afghanistan     07-19 0202</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Afghanistan,0209</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Tass Says Rebels Shell Kabul, Kill Eight People</HEAD>
<DATELINE>MOSCOW (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Rebels fired rockets into the Afghan capital of
Kabul this morning and one missile blast killed eight people and
wounded nine, the Soviet news agency Tass reported from Afghanistan.
   It was the second reported bombardment of Kabul in five days.
   Tass said rockets rained down on city streets and crossroads as
people went to work. The only known casualty toll was from the
rocket that exploded in the city's Khairkhan district, it said.
   On Friday, 21 rockets were fired into residential areas of
Kabul, killing 20 people, wounding 34 and damaging a mosque and
other buildings, Tass reported.
   It blamed the attacks on insurgents fighting the Moscow-backed
government of President Najib.
   But Abdul Haq, a rebel leader in Peshawar, Pakistan, denied that
guerrillas target civilian neighborhoods and said the Soviets
themselves might have staged the bombardment to sap support for the
rebels.
   The Soviets began withdrawing their more than 100,000 troops
from Afghanistan on May 15. Under terms of U.N.-brokered accords,
all are to be home by February.
   Both Afghan and Soviet media have said the guerrillas are
stepping up their military activity as the Soviet troops leave.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0069 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0516EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-ShootingSpree Bjt   07-19 0621</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Shooting Spree, Bjt,0639</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Neighbors Say Gunman Laughed Between Shots</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By PAUL NOWELL</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. (AP) _ A man accused of killing four people
and wounding five others with a rifle as he roamed his
neighborhood, laughing between shots, was upset because his
pregnant wife left him, friends and neighbors said.
   Michael Charles Hayes, 24, was charged Monday with two counts of
first-degree murder, and other charges were expected, Forsyth
County Sheriff Preston Oldham said.
   Hayes was listed in critical condition today with six gunshot
wounds suffered Sunday night when deputies returned fire, ending a
12-minute shooting spree that neighbors said was punctuated by
Hayes' laughter.
   ``Every time you'd hear a shot go off, he'd laugh,'' said R.
Timothy Beck, who lives nearby.
   Hayes' family tried to have him committed to a mental hospital
on Saturday after he broke one of his hands beating a wall, said
his stepfather, Garis Edwards. But the family was told they would
have to file an involuntary commitment petition with a magistrate
in another county, and a sheriff's lieutenant said the commitment
could wait until Monday, he said.
   ``(Hayes' mother) talked to me Saturday for two hours and
cried,'' said Gary, a family friend who would give only his first
name. ``She said, `Gary, why can't they do something? Why can't
they do something to stop him? Why can't they do something before
he does something?'''
   Sheriff's Capt. Charles McGee defended the department's actions.
   ``If we made a mistake, we'll take the blame for it,'' McGee
said. ``But I don't think that's the case here.''
   Several hours before the rampage began, neighbors said Hayes
could be heard firing a gun in the field behind his small moped
shop, as he frequently had done before.
   Stanley Parks, who lives across the road from the shop, said
Hayes then ran up his driveway and banged on the door of Parks'
house, shouting ``Come on out, I'm going to get you.''
   Hayes fired his .22-caliber semi-automatic rifle into the house,
shattering an entry window, Parks said. Another bullet went through
the entryway wall.
   Parks sent his wife and 15-month-old son into a back room while
he called police. ``He was firing at everything that moved,'' Parks
told The News and Observer of Raleigh. ``He was laughing real
strange.''
   Police said the gunman shot at cars driving through the
two-block residential area in southern Forsyth County. Three people
were found dead in their cars near the shop and a fourth died at a
hospital. One victim was a 16-year-old girl.
   Oldham said two patrol cars responding to the 11:32 p.m. call
Sunday were hit by bullets. The deputies returned the fire,
shooting the gunman. No deputies were injured.
   Hayes was wounded in the back, groin and leg. Doctors said his
chances for recovery were good.
   Hayes' wife was nine months pregnant and had left him within the
past two weeks, said a friend, who would only give his name as
Luther.
   Jesse Taylor, who lived near Hayes' trailer, said Hayes was very
upset and confused because the couple's child was due within a
week, he said.
   On Saturday night, Hayes startled the Parks family when he
approached them on their backyard deck and talked about his
problems and his ``infatuation with guns,'' Parks said.
   ``He was real paranoid, one of the most paranoid people I've
ever seen,'' Parks said. ``He was inferring like everybody was out
to get him. But no one here in the neighborhood had ever complained
about him.''
   Oldham said authorities had ``no idea'' what triggered the
rampage.
   ``No one can answer that other than the suspect,'' he said,
adding that investigators had been unable to question Hayes because
of his injuries.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0070 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0546EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p PM-CVN--ConventionBriefs 1stAdd   07-19 0249</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-CVN--Convention Briefs, 1st Add,a0494,260</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>ATLANTA: being held.</HEAD>
<HEAD>Turner Denied Own Parking Space In Security Mixup</HEAD>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Ted Turner, owner of the CNN Center and the Omni
Hotel, could not get into his parking space Monday morning because
of security measures adopted during the Democratic National
Convention.
   Turner's car was turned away from the executive parking area
below the complex by security guards who apparently did not
recognize his credentials.
   Turner eventually parked two blocks away and walked to his
building, said Jim Kitchell, vice president of special operations
for Turner Broadcasting System Inc.
   Kitchell said the problem had been resolved and Turner would be
allowed to park beneath the building today.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>__</HEAD>
<HEAD>Nobody Remembered To Invite The Archbishop</HEAD>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Atlanta Roman Catholic Archbishop Eugene Marino
was scheduled to give an invocation at the opening of the
Democratic National Convention, but nobody remembered to invite him.
   Printed schedules distributed by the Democratic National
Committee showed Marino praying shortly after the call to order
Monday afternoon.
   Marino looked surprised when a minister mentioned it to him
during an interfaith service Monday at Morehouse College.
   ``That's the first I've heard of it,'' he said.
   The invocation was given by L. Bevel Jones III, a bishop in the
United Methodist Church.
   Archdiocese officials contacted party officials Monday, and
Marino accepted an invitation to give the benediction for the
convention at 11 p.m. Thursday.
   ``There was a mixup,'' said the Rev. Peter Dora, spokesman for
the archdiocese.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0071 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0428EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i BC-Gulf-Raids 2ndLd-Writethru a0517 07-19 0431</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Gulf-Raids, 2nd Ld - Writethru, a0517,0438</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>URGENT</HEAD>
<HEAD>Iraqis Conduct Air Strikes On Iran Coast</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: UPDATES throughout with comment from Iraq, Iran. No pickup.
ADDS byline.
^By RICHARD PYLE</NOTE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>MANAMA, Bahrain (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Iraqi warplanes conducted raids along the
Iranian coast Tuesday, a day after Iran announced it would accept a
U.N.-sponsored cease-fire to end the 8-year-old Persian Gulf war.
   Iraq claimed it shot down an Iranian F-14 in a dogfight and
informed sources in the gulf said Iran might also have downed an
Iraqi jet fighter.
   An Iraqi military spokesman was quoted by Baghdad Radio as
saying an Iraqi warplanes shot down on Iranian warplane over the
gulf near the Iraqi port of Ammiq.
   The report, monitored in Nicosia, Cyprus, said all Iraqi planes
returned safely to base.But gulf sources said an Iranian F-14 had
also apparently shot down an Iraqi jet.
   ``There are a lot of planes in the air,'' said one source,
insisting on anonymity.
   The targets were not immediately identified, he said. It was not
known if any of Iran's tankers or oil terminals were attacked.
   The official Islamic Republic News Agency, also monitored in
Nicosia, said Iraqi warplanes had violated Iran's airspace in
southeastern Khuzestan province.
   ``They were intercepted by heavy fire of the Iranian air defense
gunners,'' the IRNA report said. It did not mention any destruction
on the ground, but the agency usually reports bombing as air space
violations.
   The apparent raids were mounted a day after Iran announced it
would accept a cease-fire resolution passed by the U.N. security
council on July 20, 1987.
   The truce would not take effect until details were worked out
``within a week to ten days,'' United Nations Secretary General
Javier Perez de Cuellar said on Monday.
   Iraq has regularly attacked Iranian shuttle tankers and key oil
terminals in the gulf in an effort to choke off it's enemy's
revenue-earning exports. The last two reported Iraqi raids were on
July 14.
   The sources said it was not immediately clear what type of Iraqi
aircraft were involved, but they are usually French-built F-1
Mirages armed with Exocet missiles and other aircraft that carry
missiles and boimbs.
   The Iraqi air activity began about 8 a.m. (1 a.m. EDT) and
continued more than two hours later, said one of the sources, who
are well informed on shipping activity in the gulf.
   An Iraqi aircraft was shot down over the central gulf, the
sources said, apparently by one of Iran's U.S.-built F-14 fighters,
some of which are known to be based at Bushehr on the Iranian coast.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0072 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0549EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-China-Flood     07-19 0211</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-China-Flood,0218</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Flash Floods Kill Up to 18 At Sacred Peak</HEAD>
<DATELINE>BEIJING (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Flash floods and mudslides killed as many as 18
people and stranded about 1,000 on central China's Mount Huashan,
one of the country's five most sacred peaks, according to reports
today.
   The overseas edition of the official People's Daily (Renmin
Ribao) said soldiers were called in to rescue climbers and
tourists, including an undetermined number of foreigners.
   Some people were apparently stranded on the mountain for up to
three days.
   The report said torrential rains and hailstorms washed out paths
and caused cave-ins on Friday and that almost all those on the
7,000-foot mountain had been evacuated by Monday.
   The official Xinhua News Agency, quoting Shaanxi province
police, said 18 climbers were killed on the mountain, while the
army rescued most everyone else who had been stranded.
   An official of the Shaanxi province Foreign Affairs Office,
contacted by telephone, put the death toll at 15.
   The official, who declined to be identified by name, said nine
of the dead were private vendors working at the foot of the
mountain. He said no foreigner was among the dead or injured.
   Mount Huashan, known for its steep cliffs and spectacular
scenery, is popular among summertime climbers and tourists.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0073 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0551EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-LastTemptation     07-19 0542</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Last Temptation,0559</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Christian Group Says It Flooded Phone Lines At Universal Studios</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By RICHARD DE ATLEY</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>UNIVERSAL CITY, Calif. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A conservative Christian group
says it jammed telephone lines at Universal Pictures to protest
``The Last Temptation of Christ,'' while another organization hopes
to raise $10 million to buy the fictional film of Jesus' life and
destroy it.
   Universal received about 10,000 telephone calls Monday in
response to a drive to flood the studio with messages seeking to
stop the distribution of the movie, said Donald E. Wildmon,
executive director of the American Family Association.
   There was no independent way to confirm Wildmon's statement, but
the main number for MCA Inc., the parent company of Universal
Pictures, remained busy throughout Monday. A call to the
switchboard normally goes through.
   ``I know that God protects his own reputation, but I feel it's
the duty of Christians to speak out,'' said Leonard Smith, a
Sacramento machinist affiliated with the Church of the Nazarene, an
evangelical denomination.
   Smith said he feared moviegoers might see the film's message as
a Christian one, even though director Martin Scorsese has
emphasized the movie is fictional and not based on the Bible. Other
Scorsese films include ``Taxi Driver'' and ``Raging Bull.''
   The film, based on the 1955 novel of the same name by Nikos
Kazantzakis, depicts a speculative last temptation of a dying Jesus
Christ, who hallucinates that he abandons his godliness to live as
a man and make love to Mary Magdalene.
   Those who have seen a rough cut of the movie said Christ then
decides to reject the temptation and fulfill his destiny as
redeemer by dying on the cross.
   Christian leaders who viewed the film are divided about its
meaning, while conservative groups who refused to attend a
screening condemned it outright. The movie will be co-distributed
by Universal and Cineplex Odeon Films.
   A spokesman for Universal refused Monday to comment on a
demonstration held Saturday at the studio gates and another planned
for Wednesday at the home of Universal chairman Lew Wasserman.
   ``Opponents of this film are calling for its destruction. This
is censorship,'' the studio said in a statement. ``People have a
right to choose for themselves whether or not to see this movie and
form their own opinions about it. ''
   The move stars Willem Dafoe as Jesus, Barbara Hershey as Mary
Magdalene and Harvey Keitel as Judas Iscariot.
   Universal will proceed with plans to distribute the movie in
September, the studio spokesman said.
   An offer to buy the film for $10 million and destroy it was made
by the San Bernardino-based Campus Crusade for Christ.
   The organization, which spreads the Christian gospel on college
and universities worldwide, said it did not have the money on hand
but would gather it through fund-raising.
   ``I anticipate that the money will be provided by concerned
individuals across America who will pool their resources in order
to cover your costs,'' evangelist Bill Bright said in a letter sent
late Friday to Wasserman.
   ``Dr. Bright's rationale for the letter is in the sprit of
Christian love and forgiveness. He has offered to help pay for
Universal's decision to make a film that demeans Jesus,'' Campus
Crusade spokesman Don Beehler said Monday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0074 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0511EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i PM-Canada-Iran     07-19 0347</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Canada-Iran,0360</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Canada To Restore Diplomatic Relations With Iran</HEAD>
<DATELINE>OTTAWA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Canada is restoring diplomatic ties with Iran that
were severed when Canadian Embassy officials spirited six American
diplomats out of Tehran in 1980.
   The Canadian government said Monday it decided to revive
relations after Iran dropped a demand that it apologize for
smuggling the Americans out of Iran.
   ``There were no conditions. There was no apology,'' a Foreign
Ministry official told a news conference. The official spoke on
condition of anonymity.
   The agreement was reached before Iran's announcement Monday that
it would accept a U.N. Security Council resolution for a cease-fire
in its 8-year-old war with Iraq.
   Canada closed its embassy in Tehran after Ambassador Ken Taylor
sheltered the Americans and then spirited them out of Iran during
the hostage crisis at the U.S. Embassy that began in November 1979.
   Since 1980, Canada maintained diplomatic contact through the
Danish Embassy in Tehran, while the Iranian government was
represented by a charge d'affaires in Ottawa.
   Under an agreement reached in Tehran last week, ambassadors will
be exchanged and a Canadian Embassy reopened by October, officials
said.
   In a formal statement, both governments said restoration of full
diplomatic relations ``will lead to increased exchanges in all
fields to the mutual benefit of Canada and the Islamic Republic of
Iran.''
   Foreign Minister Joe Clark said Sunday that moves to improve
diplomatic ties did not mean Canada was endorsing the present
Iranian government.
   ``But they are a significant country, significant force in
international events and it would be useful we think on the
appropriate terms to have normal relations,'' Clark said.
   He said talks on restoring relations began about a month ago, as
Iran resumed normal ties with France and increased contacts with
Britain.
   Iran's parliament speaker, Hashemi Rafsanjani, said this month
that Iran would try to cultivate better international relations.
   Despite the eight-year diplomatic chill, Canada and Iran have
remained trade partners and exchanged goods worth $228 million in
1987, including $83 million in Canadian wheat.
   More than 3,000 Iranians received immigrant visas for Canada in
1987.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0075 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0554EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-Vietnam-USPlane     07-19 0384</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Vietnam-US Plane,0392</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Vietnamese Return Three Navy Fliers Who Went Down In South China
Sea</HEAD>
<DATELINE>BANGKOK, Thailand (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Three U.S. Navy aviators who were
rescued by a Vietnamese vessel after their plane made an emergency
landing in the South China Sea flew back to their base in the
Philippines today.
   The aviators arrived in Bangkok from Vietnam's Ho Chi Minh City,
formerly Saigon, aboard a transport plane dispatched by the U.S.
Embassy in Bangkok. They flew on to the Philippines on a plane sent
from Cubi Point, said U.S. Embassy officials who asked not be
quoted by name.
   U.S. Ambassador William A. Brown was among those greeting the
aviators at Bankok airport. The three were not injured in the July
12 incident and appeared in good condition.
   One of them, Lt. j.g. Elizabeth A. Steinnecker of Corpus
Christi, Texas, was pregnant.
   ``This is going to be one strong baby,'' she said, gesturing to
her belly before getting on a van to transfer onto the plane to the
Philippines.
   Ms. Steinnecker, 29, co-piloted the CT-39E twin-engine jet that
made the emergency landing in the vicinity of the Spratly islands.
The other aviators were the pilot, Lt. Richard K. Maurer, 30, of
Harvey's Lake, Pa., and Petty Officer First Class Michael A. Neel,
34, of Albuquerque, N.M.
   U.S. embassy officials in Bangkok said the three were flying
from Singapore back to Subic Bay Naval Base in the Philippines when
their navigational equipment failed and they couldn't make a
scheduled refueling stop in Malaysia. With only a little fuel left,
they made a ``controlled landing'' in the sea.
   A Vietnamese vessel rescued them and brought them to mainland
Vietnam. Vietnam maintains military forces on some of the Spratly
islands, which are also claimed by several other countries.
   The official Voice of Vietnam radio said Friday that the
aviators were given good treatment and Vietnam notified the U.S.
government.
   The United States does not extend diplomatic recognition to
Vietnam's communist government, and observers said the speed with
which this incident was resolved reflected recently improved
bilateral relations.
   In the past week, Vietnam made one of its largest returns of
remains of Americans missing in the Vietnam war and agreed in
principle to resettlement in the United States of people it had
detained in political ``re-education'' camps.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0076 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0558EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-BoxOffice     07-19 0502</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Box Office,0518</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>`Coming To America' Earns $10 Million</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By RICHARD DE ATLEY</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>HOLLYWOOD (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   ``Coming to America,'' starring Eddie Murphy as
a prince in search of a bride, earned $10 million as the top draw
at the nation's weekend box office, while Clint Eastwood's ``The
Dead Pool'' came in second place with $9 million.
   Two Walt Disney movies, ``Who Framed Roger Rabbit'' and
``Bambi,'' were in third and fourth place, respectively, separated
by 46 years and several generations of cartoon technology.
   ``Roger Rabbit,'' which mixes live and animated action, earned
$8.5 million, while ``Bambi,'' originally released in 1942, sold
$7.2 million worth of tickets.
   The boy-in-a-man's-body comedy ``Big'' was in fifth place with
$5 million in sales, while the baseball movie ``Bull Durham'' was
in sixth place with $3.3 million. The robot fantasy ``Short Circuit
2,'' with $3.2 million in sales, was seventh, and teen-on-wheels
comedy ``License To Drive'' was eighth with a $2.9 million take.
   The Dudley Moore sequil ``Arthur 2: On The Rocks,'' dropped from
third to ninth place in its second week of release, earning just
over $2.9 million. In 10th place was the Ausssie adventure-comedy
```Crocodile Dundee' II,'' with $2.2 million in sales.
   Two movies that fans had been awaiting but were not widely
released made their debut this week and racked up large per-theater
earnings.
   ``Die Hard,'' starring Bruce Willis as an off-duty cop who takes
on a band of terrorists, earned $601,851 at just 21 theaters. The
20th Century Fox release averaged $28,660 per screen.
   The John Cleese mystery-comedy ``A Fish Called Wanda'' opened at
just three theaters for a weekend take of $115,418, or $38,473 per
theater. The release is from MGM-UA.
   Here are the top films for the weekend as tallied by Exhibitor
Relations Co., with distributor, weekend gross, number of theater
screens, average per screen, total gross, number of weeks in
release and estimated production costs when available.
   1. ``Coming To America,'' Paramount, $10.4 million, 2,064
screens, $5,047 per screen, $66.7 million, three weeks, $30 million.
   2. ``The Dead Pool,'' Warner Bros., $9 million, 1,831 screens,
$4,954 per screen, $12.7 million, one week, $18 million.
   3. ``Who Framed Roger Rabbit,'' Disney, $8.5 million, 1,314
screens, $6,567 per screen, $69.2 million, four weeks, $40 million.
   4. ``Bambi,'' Disney, $7.2 million, 1,483 screens, $4,866 per
screen, $7.2 million, one week, n-a.
   5. ``Big,'' 20th Century Fox, $5 million, 1,346 screens, $3,740
per screen, $68.5 million, seven weeks, $15 million.
   6. ``Bull Durham,'' Orion, $3.3 million, 1,134 screens, $2,921
per screen, $32.3 million, five weeks, $12 million.
   7. ``Short Circuit 2,'' Tri-Star, $3.2 million, 1,348 screens,
$2,395 per screen, $10.2 million, two weeks, n-a.
   8. ``License To Drive,'' 20th Century Fox, $2.91 million, 1,225
screens, $2,381 per screen, $10.4 million, two weeks, n-a.
   9. ``Arthur 2: On The Rocks,'' Warner Bros., $2.90 million,
1,426 screens, $2,035 per screen, $10.2 million, two weeks, $18
million.
   10. ```Crocodile' Dundee II,'' Paramount, $2.2 million, 1,248
screens, $1,837 per screen, $96.1 million, five weeks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0077 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0605EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-Kidnapping     07-19 0451</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Kidnapping,0466</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Church Custodian Arrested In Abduction Of Two Girls</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JENNIFER McNULTY</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>SACRAMENTO, Calif. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A church custodian was arrested in the
kidnappings of two girls, including a 4-year-old missing for six
weeks who was found boarded up beneath the church altar, police
said.
   The girls were in good condition, and there was no sign they had
been molested or abused, county sheriff's spokeswoman Tenise Allen
said Monday. They were examined at a hospital and released to their
parents.
   Kenneth Alvin Michel, 32, was arrested Monday by Sacramento
police and sheriff's deputies as he drove up to the United
Methodist Church in suburban Elk Grove. He had no previous criminal
record.
   Investigators traced his license plate on a blue sedan allegedly
used in an attempted abduction Monday of a 6-year-old girl that was
foiled by her 9-year-old sister and a witness who yelled at the man
and followed the car, said police Sgt. Bob Burns.
   ``The key to today's success appears to be the very observant
witness who got the license number,'' Burns said.
   Michel, who is deaf, directed officers to the girls' location,
and police interrogated him through a sign-language interpreter,
authorities said.
   ``He communicated with us by writing on paper,'' said John
Thurston, a police detective.
   Michel of Elk Grove faces charges in the kidnapping of Candi
Talarico, 4, and Muey Han Saefong, 5, and the attempted kidnapping
of the 6-year-old girl, Burns said.
   Candi was abducted June 4 while she played with friends outside
her Sacramento apartment. The kidnapping was featured on Fox
Broadcasting Co.'s ``America's Most Wanted'' program.
   Muey, who was abducted earlier Monday, was found in the back of
Michel's hatchback sedan, with tape over her mouth and around her
legs, Allen said.
   Candi was found in a 5-by-5-by-2-foot boarded-up space with a
dirt floor directly beneath the church's altar, Allen said. The
space was furnished with blankets, stuffed animals, books, food,
lights, a television and newspapers that contained articles about
her abduction.
   ``It appeared that she was well taken care of,'' Allen said.
``There was no apparent sign of molestation or abuse.''
   Officers did not know long Candi had been at the church, Allen
said.
   The church's pastor, the Rev. Linda Inlow, said she didn't know
why the girl had not been discovered earlier. Michel worked at the
church as a part-time custodian.
   After they were rescued, Candi and Muey were taken to University
Medical Center, where a spokeswoman said they were in good
condition. They were released later in the evening.
   ``They seem to be fine,'' said spokeswoman Linda King. ``They
are talking with their parents. Candi was exchanging giggles with
her mother. The families are all together.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0078 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0609EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-China-Inflation     07-19 0506</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-China-Inflation,0523</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Prices Jump 19 Percent In Sharpest Climb Since Reforms Began</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JOHN POMFRET</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>BEIJING (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Consumer prices jumped 19 percent in the past
year, the government announced today, acknowledging the biggest
such rise since China introduced market reforms a decade ago.
   Zhang Zhongji, a spokesman for the State Statistics Bureau,
blamed the economy's inability to satisfy consumer demand for the
rise. But he said middlemen who hoard goods and control their
distribution also are responsible.
   Zhang also told a news conference that grain production,
stagnant for the past two years, is not expected to improve this
year.
   He said workers in China's 32 major cities, including Beijing,
Shanghai and Wuhan, were hardest hit by inflation and that food
prices increased the most.
   Prices last month were 19 percent higher than those of June
1987, he said. But Chinese economists do not consider that the
country's inflation rate, which they calculate differently than in
the West.
   In China, the annual inflation rate is calculated by averaging
price increases over 12 months rather than measuring the gap
between prices from a given date to the same date 12 months later.
   Using this system, Zhang said consumer prices during the first
six months of this year were an average of 13 percent higher than
during the first six months of last year. This is what the
government considers the inflation rate.
   China says inflation was 7.2 percent last year and 11 percent in
the first quarter of 1988.
   China has not previously released an inflation figure calculated
by the Western method, as is the 19 percent figure, so this could
not be compared against last year.
   Zhang said food prices during the six-month period were an
average of 16.9 percent higher than in the same period last year,
and clothing prices were up about 10 percent.
   Prices in China's 32 major cities were an average of 14.4
percent higher than in the first six months of 1987, but were 19
percent higher in Canton and 20 percent higher in Hefei.
   In major cities, Zhang said, wages of one-fifth of the
population have failed to keep pace with inflation, leading to a
decline in living standards.
   Zhang did not link the high inflation to the nation's 11 percent
economic growth rate during the first half of the year and its 17.2
percent industrial growth rate.
   Some Chinese economists believe this pace of growth is fueling
inflation by creating too high demand for raw materials,
transportation and energy.
   Inflation is one of China's biggest economic problems. Under the
reform program introduced in 1978 by senior leader Deng Xiaoping,
China is moving away from a system where the state sets prices and
is allowing the market to determine prices.
   A two-tier price system has developed, with key items such as
grain and pork sold both in state stores at artificially low prices
and on the free market at prices set by supply and demand. Prices
of many other goods, such as fruit, are completely decontrolled.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0079 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0615EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-HelicopterExplosion     07-19 0457</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Helicopter Explosion,0467</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Search Continues For Crewmen Missing In Helicopter Explosion</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By CATALINA ORTIZ</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>SAN FRANCISCO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A Coast Guard cutter searched off the
Golden Gate today for eight crew members of a Navy helicopter that
exploded over the open sea while on a training exercise, officials
said.
   ``There's still no sign of survivors, but we're hoping and
looking,'' Coast Guard Lt. Cmdr. Jack Hardin said. The search was
hampered by dense fog that reduced visibility to 150 yards.
   The MH-53E Sea Dragon helicopter was 11 miles northwest of the
Golden Gate and five miles off Marin County when it vanished Monday
in a burst of two explosions, Navy officials said.
   Search crews found scattered wreckage that included seven
helmets, Coast Guard Petty Officer Thomas Cowan said, adding that
no survivors were expected. The cutter Blackhaw continued the
search overnight with spotlights.
   Names of the missing crewmen were withheld until the Navy had
notified relatives.
   Crew members of the Northern Lights, a fishing boat, reported
they heard two explosions about 11 a.m. ``and saw the helicopter
disappear from the sky,'' Cowan said.
   ``Initially we had some reports there were explosives on the
helicopter. It turned out they were pyrotechnics _ flares _ and
small arms ammunition, which poses no threat to shipping,'' said
Coast Guard Chief Petty Officer Ken Freeze.
   The explosions also were seen by those on board the Lovely
Martha, a salmon fishing boat. Pete Giddings, a KGO-TV weatherman
who was aboard the boat, said, ``All of a sudden, I saw a puff of
smoke. ... Eleven seconds later, we heard the first explosion. Four
or five seconds later, we heard the second explosion.''
   The Coast Guard closed the Golden Gate to ships for about half
an hour after the explosions while two Navy helicopters and two
Coast Guard choppers joined the Blackhaw, two smaller Coast Guard
vessels and the Northern Lights in the search.
   The helicopter, which was conducting a routine mine
countermeasure exercise, was attached to Mine Countermeasures
Squadron 15, based at Alameda Naval Air Station on the eastern
shore of San Francisco Bay, said Navy spokeswoman Virginia Felker.
   The MH-53E Sea Dragon, along with its sister aircraft, the
CH-53E Super Stallion, is the largest helicopter in the West, Navy
officials said. The helicopter is 99 feet long with the rotors
turning, weighs 73,500 pounds and can travel at 150 knots. The
minesweeping version, the MH-53E, has a larger fuel capacity than
the CH-53, allowing it to fly farther and faster.
   The MH-53E, manufactured by the Sikorsky Aircraft Division of
the United Technologies Corp., sweeps mines by pulling a ``sledge''
through the water, but it was not doing so at the time of the
explosions, the Navy said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0080 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0702EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-WeatherpageWeather     07-19 0546</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Weatherpage Weather,0560</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Thunderstorms Sweep Through Nation</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By The Associated Press</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   Thunderstorms spread drenching rain over much of the nation
today after a series of violent storms hit Nebraska, bringing a
tornado, heavy rains that flooded streets and fierce winds.
   Showers and thunderstorms were spread early this morning from
eastern Wyoming across eastern Colorado, from southwestern South
Dakota across western Nebraska and western Kansas, over southeast
Oklahoma, northern Arkansas, southern Missouri, the Ohio Valley,
the lower Great Lakes, Pennsylvania, Virginia, New Jersey,
Delaware, Maryland and southeast Georgia.
   A tornado touched down Monday night at Hershey, Neb., but there
were no reports of damage.
   Heavy rains from thunderstorms also flooded many streets of
Clovis, N.M., where waters were reported to be waist high.
   Several areas of south-central Nebraska were deluged with rain
early this morning. Two inches of rain hit Red Cloud in a 10-15
minute period and Holdrege reported receiving 4{ inches of rain. An
area near Phelps was inundated by 5\ inches of rain in one hour.
   Thunderstorm winds gusted to 60 mph south of Kimball, Neb., and
near Wewoka, Okla., to 66 mph at Goodland, Kan., and to 70 mph at
Wray, Colo.
   High winds and heavy rain swept through Tavares, Fla., on
Monday, damaging mobile homes, battering businesses and knocking
out electricity for more than an hour, police said.
   A mobile home park in the central Florida town reported one if
its homes destroyed and several others damaged. Aluminum roofs and
carports also were blown off at a few homes and a 4-foot-wide oak
tree fell in the storm, police said.
   Today's forecast called for showers and thunderstorms from New
England across North Carolina, from the lower Great Lakes across
the Ohio Valley, the Tennessee Valley, Alabama, the lower
Mississippi Valley, the upper Texas Gulf Coast, Kansas, southern
Nebraska, and southern and central Florida.
   High temperatures were forecast for the 70s over northern New
England, northern Minnesota, the Dakotas, western Nebraska and from
eastern Colorado across Montana; in the 90s from Virginia to
Florida, from the Tennessee Valley across the central Gulf Coast,
over the lower Mississippi Valley, Oklahoma, the eastern two-thirds
of Texas, New Mexico and the Pacific Northwest; 100 degrees and
hotter over the remainder of Texas; 100 to 115 over the desert
Southwest; and in the 80s over the rest of the nation.
   Temperatures around the nation at 3 a.m. EDT ranged from 47 at
Yellowstone National Park, Wyo., to 95 at both Desert Rock, Nev.,
and near Las Vegas, Nev.
   Other reports:
   _East: Atlanta 79 fair; Boston 74 partly cloudy; Buffalo 71
cloudy; Charleston, S.C., 81 fair; Cleveland 71 showers; Detroit 70
rain; Miami 77 partly cloudy; New York 71 partly cloudy;
Philadelphia 78 cloudy; Pittsburgh 70 foggy; Portland, Maine, 72
cloudy; Washington 77 foggy.
   _Central: Bismarck 57 fair; Chicago 71 fair; Dallas-Fort Worth
87 fair; Denver 62 partly cloudy; Des Moines 72 fair; Indianapolis
73 foggy; Kansas City 75 fair; Mpls-St. Paul 71 fair; Nashville 82
fair; New Orleans 77 fair; St. Louis 77 fair.
   _West: Albuquerque 70 windy; Anchorage 63 fair; Las Vegas 94
fair; Los Angeles 64 fair; Phoenix 89 fair; Salt Lake City 68 fair;
San Diego 68 partly cloudy; San Francisco 57 fair; Seattle 71 fair.
   _Canada: Montreal 72 showers; Toronto 73 cloudy.
  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0081 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0719EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-TVFugitive     07-19 0344</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-TV Fugitive,0355</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Crime Show Leads To Fugitive's Arrest</HEAD>
<DATELINE>EL CENTRO, Calif. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A fugitive charged with his wife's
slaying in Louisiana nearly 11 months ago was in custody today
thanks to a TV crime show that his roommates watched as he slept,
authorities said.
   Robert Wayne Fisher, 47, was being held in the Imperial County
jail here pending extradition proceedings to return him to
Louisiana, where he faces second-degree murder charges, said police
Sgt. Ray Loera.
   Fisher was arrested Sunday on a federal warrant for unlawful
flight shortly after being profiled on Fox Broadcasting Co.'s
``America's Most Wanted,'' Loera said.
   He was sleeping when police in this Imperial Valley farming town
about 110 miles east of San Diego entered his room in a residential
motel after receiving tips from his two roommates and the motel
manager, Loera said.
   Fisher's arrest was the 18th credited to tips from the show's
viewers, Fox spokesman Jack Breslin said.
   Fisher's wife, Tamara Lee, was shot to death Aug. 26, 1987.
Fisher had been sought since skipping a Jan. 11 arraignment in
Calcasieu Parish in southwestern Louisiana while free on a $175,000
bond, officials said.
   He also faces charges of indecent behavior with a minor and
firearms violations, according to the FBI's New Orleans office.
   Almost immediately after ``America's Most Wanted'' was broadcast
Sunday night, the FBI received several calls about Fisher ``from
people in El Centro who knew him and worked with him, including his
roommate,'' said James Bolenbach, an agent in San Diego.
   Motel manager Shari Jones said Fisher registered in his real
name, and used his Social Security number at work.
   Eighteen of 72 fugitives profiled on ``America's Most Wanted''
over the past two years have been arrested as the result of viewer
tips, Breslin said in Los Angeles.
   Another 10 fugitives featured on the program were arrested, and
authorities cited publicity from the show as helpful in those
cases, Breslin said.
   The program, broadcast weekly on 125 stations, bases its
profiles on court records and interviews with police and crime
victims' families.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0082 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0729EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-Lites     07-19 0405</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Lites,0419</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>On The Light Side</HEAD>
<DATELINE>SALT LAKE CITY (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Eighteen gallons of jelly bean ice cream
are on their way to President Reagan after being pronounced fit for
the presidential palate by Senate taste-tester Jake Garn.
   Utah congressional candidate Richard Snelgrove and his family
spent days whipping up a jelly bean recipe after Reagan, a jelly
bean aficionado, asked for it when Snelgrove visited the White
House with a group of Republican candidates last month.
   Snelgrove, a part-owner of Snelgrove Ice Cream Co., was told the
president's favorite jelly bean flavors are cherry and tangerine,
so the company made batches of both.
   After sampling the sweet concoction, Garn, R-Utah, pronounced it
a `10.'
   ``Now the Secret Service will test it before it's served to the
president,'' he said. ``Maybe they'll put a freezer in the Oval
Office.''
   Snelgrove joked that since he's providing desserts for Reagan,
other candidates may demand equal time.
   Reagan will not be the first president to sample the Snelgrove
family's treats. In 1935 the company provided Thanksgiving dessert
for President Franklin Roosevelt at Warm Springs, Ga., Snelgrove
said.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>CHICAGO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Some people might be thrilled to be feted by the
mayor and the governor, but Dr. Rosita Pildes says her favorite
birthday honor was the chance to see nearly 400 children she helped
heal.
   ``It's the best birthday present I could have _ to see all these
children getting well,'' said Ms. Pildes, 59, who has worked at
Cook County Hospital for 20 years.
   Mayor Eugene Sawyer and Gov. James Thompson proclaimed Monday
``Dr. Rosita Pildes Day'' in recognition of her work as chairwoman
of the hospital's Neo-Natal Network station.
   Ms. Pildes received the proclamations at a reunion picnic, where
nearly 400 children, from infants to teens, met many of the doctors
and nurses who had saved their lives.
   Dr. Lonnie Edwards, commissioner of the city's Department of
Health, and Bernard Turnock, director of the Illinois Department of
Public Health, presented Ms. Pildes with ``Mother of Neo-Natalogy''
awards and bouquets of flowers along with proclamations, said Wanda
Robertson, a hospital spokeswoman.
   The party was organized by staff members of the Neo-Natal
Network Station, which cares for premature infants who weigh less
than a pound, and for seriously ill newborns.
   ``We called the kids neo-natal graduates to remind them of the
medical problems they had, and that they succeeded at this point in
life,'' Ms. Robertson said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0083 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0730EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i PM-Dollar-Gold 1stLd-Writethru a0544 07-19 0306</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Dollar-Gold, 1st Ld - Writethru, a0544,0317</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Dollar Lower, Gold Higher</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: SUBS 9th graf, `In Zurich ... late Monday,' to RESTORES
dropped digits. Picks up 10th graf, `Earlier, in ...</NOTE>
<DATELINE>LONDON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The dollar weakened in early European trading
today, stung by dollar selling by the West German and Swiss central
banks, dealers said. Gold prices were higher.
   The dollar recovered slightly in late morning trading from
opening lows but remained lower against all major currencies
compared with Monday's late rates.
   Sales of dollars by the West German and Swiss central banks in
the open market depressed the dollar and unsettled the market,
dealers said.
   ``A lot of traders got their fingers burned, so for the moment
the central banks are in charge,'' said a dealer at a major Italian
commercial bank in Rome.
   In Tokyo, where the business day ends as Europe's begins, the
dollar dropped 1.30 Japanese yen to a closing 133.85 yen. Later, in
London, it was little changed at 133.88 yen.
   Other dollar rates at mid-morning, compared with late Monday:
   _1.8648 West German marks, down from 1.8823
   _1.5470 Swiss francs, down from 1.5625
   _6.2885 French francs, down from 6.3415
   _2.0995 Dutch guilders, down from 2.1130
   _1,382.05 Italian lire, down from 1,390.50
   _1.2055 Canadian dollars, down from 1.2095
   In London, the British pound rose to $1.6867 from $1.6693 late
Monday.
   Gold opened in London at a bid price of $436.40 a troy ounce, up
from $436.25 bid late Monday. At midmorning today, the city's five
major bullion dealers fixed a recommended price of $437.25.
   In Zurich, the bid price was $437, up from $435 bid late Monday.
   Earlier, in Hong Kong, gold fell $1.02 to close at a bid $438.98.
   Silver bullion rose in London to a bid price of $7.15 a troy
ounce, up from $7.13 bid late Monday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0084 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0746EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u p PM-ConventionAbroad     07-19 0646</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Convention Abroad,0671</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>CAMPAIGN ABROAD: Foreign Press Views the Candidates</HEAD>
<NOTE>EDITOR'S NOTE </NOTE>
<TEXT>
   This is one of a series of periodic reports
compiled by Associated Press bureaus on how the U.S. presidential
election campaign is viewed abroad.
</TEXT>
<BYLINE>By The Associated Press</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   Here's a sampling of what newspapers abroad are saying about the
Democratic National Convention:
</TEXT>
<HEAD>ITALY</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   La Repubblica, national (liberal):
   ``The struggle between Jesse and the Duke seemed a little
tactical and artificial until yesterday; today what seems
artificial is the sudden agreement among a new trio: (Lloyd)
Bentsen, conservative, (Michael) Dukakis, liberal but moderate,
(Jesse) Jackson, leftist radical.
   ``The truth is that in the Democratic Party, as in any other
party in the world, there are at least three tendencies. They are
divided and different, but they must fight together to defeat the
Republicans and (George) Bush for the run to the White House.''
   Corriere della Sera of Milan (conservative): ``Behind Jackson's
intemperances, and behind his rhetorical speeches there was a
calculation: power for himself and for the blacks that in this
convention are represented by a fourth of the delegates.
   ``Not all the blacks are supporting Jackson, but they are all
looking for the confirmation of a national political power that
they should get through their influence, though this power does not
exist yet.''
   Il Messaggero of Rome:
   ``Dukakis and Jackson recognized that they need reciprocal
support, but they did not announce the stipulation of a solid
agreement.
   ``Dukakis does not like the Jackson-style, which fascinates
crowds and which is more similar to a demagogue than to a
professional of politics; and Jackson does not like the coldhearted
Dukakis, who seems more a manager than a leader.'''
</TEXT>
<HEAD>ZIMBABWE</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   The Herald (government)
   ``Mr. Dukakis' problems with Rev. Jesse Jackson's camp were
being sorted out last night. The leader of the rainbow coalition
had every reason to feel angry with Mr. Dukakis for not personally
informing him, in advance of the press, of his choice of Lloyd
Bentsen as running mate.
   ``Mr. Jackson has a large share of democratic voters behind him,
some 20 percent of them. Their voters may make or break the
democratic candidate. However, in agreeing to make up, Mr. Jackson,
shrewd as he is, is likely to exact a price from Mr. Dukakis for
his endorsement.
   ``The prize could be a package part of which may have to do with
punitive sanctions against the racist South African regime. The two
Democrats are both agreed anyway that more should be done by
America to bring about an end to apartheid. Their differences may
be in how to go about it. Mr. Jackson's recipes can only be
described as radical.
   ``By the same token, Mr. Dukakis' promise not only to intiate
American sanctions upon his election but also to drag Mrs. Margaret
Thatcher into doing the same is certainly sending alarming signals
to the British conservatives.
   ``Britain cannot afford to stand up to America on sanctions
against South Africa.
   ``It is for that reason that Mrs. Thatcher should be working
hard to modify her stance on sanctions. She can be counted upon to
do something dramatic to pull the carpet from under Mr. Dukakis'
feet.
   ``The most likely action she could take is to start a South
African initiative of her own.''
</TEXT>
<HEAD>FRANCE</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   French newspapers reported prominently today on the agreement
between Dukakis and Jackson to work together in this fall's U.S.
presidential campaign.
   In a sidebar headlined, ``A High Mass Tailored for the Small
Screen,'' the leftist morning daily Liberation explained the
extensive efforts being made to accommodate television coverage in
the scheduling of events and the color scheme of the convention
hall in Atlanta.
   The newspaper's correspondent also noted the provisions made for
the press covering the events, including aspirin tablets and
assurances that the Reporters' Committee for Freedom of the Press
would help any journalists arrested while covering demonstrations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0085 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0800EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-People-Royals     07-19 0085</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-People-Royals,0087</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Royal Couple To Visit France</HEAD>
<DATELINE>LONDON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Prince Charles and Princess Diana will make an
official four-day visit to France in November, Buckingham Palace
announced today.
   President Francois Mitterrand has invited the royal couple to
visit from Nov. 7 to Nov. 11. No other details were given by the
palace.
   Charles, heir to the British throne, and his wife visited Caen
and Bayeux in Normandy, northern France, in September to mark the
900th anniversary of the death of William the Conqueror.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0086 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0842EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-ColdCash     07-19 0254</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Cold Cash,0261</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>$15,000 Stashed In Freezers Nearly Tossed Out</HEAD>
<DATELINE>INDEPENDENCE, Mo. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   It was cash, cold and hard, and it
nearly got tossed out in the trash _ all $15,122 of it.
   The money has been stashed in three freezers, wrapped in white
butcher paper packages labeled ``cold compresses,'' by a woman who
died in May.
   A volunteer for the Salvation Army found the money, mostly in
$20, $50 and $100 bills, while sorting through the contents of the
freezers which had been donated by the woman's family.
   ``We had thrown them over on the floor because we couldn't use
them,'' said Salvation Army Capt. Charles McCarty said of the
``cold compress'' packages. ``That money could have very easily
been thrown in the trash can.''
   The cash had been stored among the frozen food by Sarah Bonar,
who died in May at the age of 77, and her husband, Lyle. Relatives
had earlier discovered about $400 in an envelope when an ice cube
tray was removed.
   ``She had money in three banks and four savings and loans,''
said Joyce Bonar, a stepdaughter-in-law. ``So why she would go off
and put some in the freezer I don't know.''
   The freezer money was turned in to police, who eventually traced
it back to the Bonar family.
   ``We plan to give a reward to the person who found the money,''
Joyce Bonar said, ``and make a contribution to the Salvation Army.''
   The balance will go to Mrs. Bonar's husband, who now lives with
relatives.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0087 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0846EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-Newborn-Airliner     07-19 0569</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Newborn-Airliner,0586</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>County Retains Temporary Custody of Baby</HEAD>
<HEAD>LaserPhoto FX1</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By CATALINA ORTIZ</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>BELMONT, Calif. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A woman who hid her pregnancy from her
husband had only a short time to decide what to do when she gave
birth unexpectedly and secretly in a jetliner restroom, her lawyer
said.
   ``In 20 minutes, she had to make some decisions _ not only
physically how to deliver a baby in a DC-10, but how does she
resolve the dilemma she's created for herself by not telling
anyone?'' John L. Williams said Monday.
   ``(But) she never tried to harm the child. All she tried to do
was hide the child the way she tried to conceal the pregnancy,'' he
added.
   Williams, lawyer for Christina LoCasto of Staten Island, N.Y.,
spoke at a news conference after a juvenile court commissioner
ruled that her 5-day-old daughter would remain in the temporary
custody of San Mateo County.
   Mrs. LoCasto pleaded innocent last week to a felony charge of
child endangerment. The 24-year-old woman, who is free on $50,000
bail, is accused of abandoning her newborn daughter under the sink
of the jet restroom on a cross-country flight.
   Commissioner Patricia Bresee decided the infant will stay in a
foster home at least until Friday, when county social workers
present a report on the homes of LoCasto relatives as to their
fitness as a home for the baby.
   But until then, the LoCastos will be allowed to visit their new
daughter, Alyssa Frances LoCasto, under county supervision, Bresee
ruled.
   In making her decision, Bresee rejected a plea by Mrs. LoCasto's
husband, Louis LoCasto, 26, to grant him custody of the infant.
LoCasto's right to his daughter is not in dispute, but the couple's
decision to remain together was one reason for Bresee's decision,
his lawyer said.
   ``They are determined to remain united as a family unit and have
their daughter with them as soon as possible,'' attorney Vicki
Yeley said.
   The LoCastos and relatives rushed out a back door of the
courthouse and declined to talk with reporters.
   Williams said it was still uncertain why his client denied she
was pregnant ``to herself as much as others.''
   The LoCasto had been having domestic problems at the time Alyssa
was conceived, less than a year after the birth of their second
daughter, Tina, now 18 months old, Williams said. The couple also
has a 6-year-old daughter, Janine.
   Mrs. LoCasto denied she was pregnant when her husband asked, her
lawyer said.
   ``Once having told a lie of that magnitude, it became more
difficult to tell the truth,'' he said. ``As it became
progressively more difficult to tell the truth, the lie got bigger,
literally and figuratively.''
   Mrs. LoCasto, who had not sought medical care, was not aware she
was about to give birth when she, her husband and two daughters got
aboard a United Airlines jet in Newark, N.J. Wednesday for a family
vacation, Williams said.
   After the birth, Mrs. LoCasto told her husband she was sick,
Williams said. The flight crew, seeing blood in the restroom,
sealed it during the flight, and the newborn was found only after
the plane landed in San Francisco.
   The brown-haired, blue-eyed girl is now in a foster home.
   ``Alyssa is fine. She is healthy. She appears to be a normal
5-day-old infant ... suffering no ill effects of what occurred,''
said Gerry Hilliard, the baby's court-appointed lawyer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0088 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0850EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u w PM-HousingStarts     07-19 0343</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Housing Starts,350</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>June Sees Partial Recovery</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By DAVE SKIDMORE</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Housing construction partially recovered in
June, rising 5.1 percent after plummeting 12.6 percent in May, the
government said today.
   The Commerce Department said the increase, the steepest in four
months, pushed construction activity to a seasonally adjusted
annual rate of 1.45 million units.
   Economists had been expecting the upturn because mortgage
interest rates, which climbed steadily through April and May, eased
as much as a quarter of a percentage point in June.
   However, interest rates began edging up again in July and most
analysts expect the housing slump to continue through the end of
the year. The sector this year has been one of the weakest in the
economy, which has drawn its strength from exports and manufacture
of equipment for businesses.
   During the first six months of this year, builders began work on
738,900 housing units, down 10.9 percent from the same period a
year earlier.
   All of the housing strength in June came in a rebound in the
construction of single-family homes, which jumped 10.2 percent to
1.1 million units after falling 8.9 percent in May and 6.7 percent
in April.
   Apartment construction, which has been in the doldrums since the
new tax law took effect at the start of 1987, fell 8.2 percent in
June to 356,000 units. This followed an even steeper nosedive of 21
percent in May and a sharp jump of 37.5 percent in April.
   The June rate for buildings with five or more units was 296,000
units, the lowest in six years.
   Housing permits, considered a good sign of future construction
activity, rose 3.7 percent in June following a 0.9 pecent drop in
May.
   The June increase was led by a 17.6 percent jump in the
Northeast, rebounding from a 22.6 percent drop in May. However, in
the Midwest, which also suffered a 22.6 percent decline in May,
housing starts dropped 3.7 percent in June.
   Construction activity rose 7.9 percent in the West and 2.9
percent in the South.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0089 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0851EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w PM-VietnamMemorial 1stLd-Writethru a0459 07-19 0254</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Vietnam Memorial, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0459,240</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>New Scar Discovered On Vietnam Veterans Memorial</HEAD>
<NOTE>EDS: SUBS last graf to drop extraneous words and clarify</NOTE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   U.S. park rangers say a vertical scratch has
been discovered in the Vietnam Veterans Memorial that is deeper
than scars detected earlier this year.
   The latest scratch, four inches long and an eighth of inch wide,
does not touch any of the 58,156 engraved names. The highly
polished granite wall is so hard that National Park Service
officials said the damage only could have been inflicted
deliberately.
   Park Ranger James Lance, who served in Vietnam in a noncombatant
role, discovered the damage Sunday morning but said he was not sure
when the damage occurred.
   Officials said vandalism is a difficult security problem for
rangers and U.S. Park Police because people routinely touch the
wall and make rubbings of names.
   The memorial is the most popular in Washington, and has been
since it opened in 1982, attracting 12,000 to 15,000 visitors daily.
   ``The problem is the nature of the memorial,'' said Jan Scruggs,
president of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Fund that jointly
administers the memorial with the Park Service.
   ``What makes it successful is the feeling people get from
touching it, from touching the names. We would never consider
covering it with glass to protect it.''
   Sandra Alley, of the National Park Service, and Scruggs said
they want volunteers to form a memorial watch, similar to a
neighborhood watch, to assist U.S. Park Police in patrolling at
night.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0090 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0904EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-Israel     07-19 0337</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Israel,0347</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Arab Americans Leaving The Israeli-Occupied Territories</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By SERGEI SHARGORODSKY</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>JERUSALEM (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   About 2,000 Arab Americans have moved out of
the occupied territories because the Palestinian uprising has
threatened their safety and the education of their children, a U.S.
official said today.
   U.S. consulate spokesman David Good said the 2,000 Arab
Americans represent about one-quarter of those who lived in the
West Bank and east Jerusalem before the uprising began Dec. 8.
   On Monday night, some 3,000 Palestinians in Beit Sahour village
turned a funeral into an anti-Israeli demonstration after
17-year-old Admon Elias Hilal was killed by a brick that fell from
a fourth-floor army lookout post.
   Earlier in the day, Dutch Foreign Minister Hans Van Den Broek
toured the Kalandia refugee camp north of Jerusalem, setting off a
protest by Arab youths who chanted slogans and hurled rocks at
reporters.
   After Van Den Broek left, troops fired rubber bullets to break
up crowds who raised outlawed Palestinian flags and pictures of
Yasser Arafat, chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization.
   Good said the main reason the Arab Americans are leaving the
occupied lands is the ``unsettled conditions'' caused by the
Palestinian rebellion. ``Many people are concerned about their
children's education or about them being caught up in violence,''
he told The Associated Press.
   The Israeli military administration closed Arabs schools in the
West Bank for four months during the uprising and cut short the
school year by about a month. The administration believes the
schools are centers of unrest.
   Many of the 224 Palestinians who have been killed since the
unrest broke out are teen-agers. Four Israelis also have died.
   Faris Bouhafa, spokesman for the Washington-based American Arab
Anti-Discrimination Committee, said some departing Arab Americans
planned to return once conditions are calmer in the occupied
territories.
   Bouhafa, who said his 8-year-old organization has 61 chapters
and 20,000 members in the United States, is in Israel to expand the
role of the group's east Jerusalem branch, which was established
three months ago.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0091 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0915EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-MacArthurAwards 1stLd-Writethru a0465 07-19 0763</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-MacArthur Awards, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0465,0782</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>MacArthur Award Winners Include Puppeteer, Firefighter,
Handicapped Writer</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Leads with 8 grafs to recast, include more detail on Dubus,
picking up 6th graf pvs, ``Recipients of xxxx</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By LINDSEY TANNER</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>CHICAGO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A writer who had to borrow money for treatment
after he was disabled in an accident received one of 31 MacArthur
awards announced today and said he will use the money ``to pay the
people who take care of me until I die.''
   Fiction writer Andre Dubus said he felt ``gratitude so extreme
that I haven't recovered from it yet.''
   Like other recipients, Dubus, whose latest book was ``The Last
Worthless Evening,'' learned of his award last week.
   ``I've been using borrowed money for the people who take care of
me,'' said Dubus, 51, in an interview Monday from his Haverhill,
Mass., home. He was injured and had a leg amputated two years ago
after he was hit by a car while helping another motorist.
   He said he plans to invest his $310,000 grant so that he will
have enough money to pay for his treatment and caregivers for the
rest of his life.
   Dubus, whose work has concentrated on discontented New
Englanders, has already won a Guggenheim grant, the PEN-New England
Award for literary distinction and an award from the American
Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters.
   Last year Stephen King, John Irving, Kurt Vonnegut, John Updike
and other authors gave a series of readings to help raise $100,000
for Dubus' treatment.
   Other MacArthur winners include a firefighter who studies the
cultural history of fires, noted jazz percussionist Max Roach and
the granddaughter of President Theodore Roosevelt.
   Recipients of the awards, which range from $150,000 to $375,000,
are free to use the money as they wish.
   Individuals are nominated anonymously for the fellowships _ they
may not apply _ and a 15-member selection committee reviews the
nominations.
   The John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation's board of
directors gives final approval of the winners.
   ``We believe that in enabling these extraordinarily talented
individuals to discover and create free of financial constraints,
the Fellows Program makes a valuable contribution to American
scientific and cultural life,'' said John Corbally, the
foundation's president.
   ``The whole goal is to give you the freedom to develop your
research in the way that you see best,'' added recipient Anna
Curtenius Roosevelt, an archaeologist and granddaughter of the
country's 26th president.
   Ms. Roosevelt, 42, who won a $265,000 grant, has been studying
ancient cultures of the tropical lowlands of South America for
nearly 15 years.
   ``We believe that we have found the earliest pottery in the New
World in a site near the city of Santarem in Brazil,'' she said in
a telephone interview Monday from New York, where she is a visting
researcher at the American Museum of Natural History.
   Other 1988 winners include novelist Thomas Pynchon, whose works
include ``Gravity's Rainbow''; Bruce D. Schwartz, a Los Angeles
puppeteer who draws from Japanese and European traditions; and Ruth
Behar, an anthropologist from Ann Arbor, Mich., who studies Mexican
sorcery and at 31 is the youngest recipient this year.
   ``I'm still in kind of a state of shock about it,'' said
recipient Hipolito Roldan, head of the Hispanic Housing Development
Corp., a private non-profit group that finds housing for low-income
Hispanic families in Chicago.
   ``Housing or a home is the place where lives get built or
shattered,'' he said. ``To the extent that a kid has a space, maybe
even their own room, to study in ... to plan for the future, is a
very important thing.''
   Stephen J. Pyne, 39, an environmental historian and professional
firefighter, called his $250,000 award ``a bolt out of the blue.''
   Pyne, who studies ways in which people have interacted with fire
throughout history, figures he was selected for ``doing kind of
original stuff, different kinds of things in environmental
history.''
   A total of 254 MacArthur fellows, ranging in age from 18 to 82,
have been named since the program began in 1981. Fellows receive
their grants in increments over five years, with the larger awards
going to the older recipients. Winners also receive health
insurance.
   The grant-making foundation is one of the largest private
philanthropic groups in the United States. MacArthur, owner of
Bankers' Life And Casualty insurance company, established it
shortly before his death in 1978. His wife died shortly thereafter.
   After he created the foundation, MacArthur told his board of
directors, ``I figured out how to make it, you figure out how to
spend it.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0092 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0930EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>d a PM-BRF--BeachBashing     07-19 0192</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-BRF--Beach Bashing,0196</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Candidate Blasts Bahamas Ad For Slighting New Jersey</HEAD>
<DATELINE>MIDDLETOWN, N.J. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A congressional candidate says an ad
campaign for the Bahamas that alludes to beach pollution problems
in New York and New Jersey is in poor taste and should be halted.
   Joseph Azzolina, a Republican candidate in New Jersey's 3rd
Congressional District, said a full-page ad in Friday's editions of
The New York Times undercuts the drawing power of beaches in the
two states.
   Beaches in New York have been plagued by raw sewage and medical
waste. Several beaches in New Jersey remained closed Monday after
water samples continued to show high levels of a bacteria
associated with human waste.
   The Bahamas ad, created by the D'Arcy, Masius, Benton & Bowles
agency, depicted a beach with a shell washing ashore and read:
``The only thing that washes up on our beaches.''
   ``As a businessman I know that it is not smart ... to turn
someone else's misfortune into your own gain,'' Azzolina said in a
letter to the firm.
   Agency officials could not be reached for comment. Calls to the
firm's New York City office were unanswered.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0093 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0944EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i PM-GulfRdp 4thLd-Writethru a0559 07-19 0594</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Gulf Rdp, 4th Ld-Writethru, a0559,0607</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Iraqi Warplanes Attack Iran One Day After Peace Breakthrough</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Leads with 11 grafs to UPDATE with Iraq claiming it shot down
another Iranian warplane; Iran saying its nuclear plant damaged but
providing no further details. Pickup 9th graf pvs ``U.S. Navy...''.</NOTE>
<BYLINE>With PM-UN-Iran-Iraq, Bjt
^By RICHARD PYLE</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>MANAMA, Bahrain (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Iran said Iraqi warplanes raided a
nuclear plant and other targets in Iran today, causing deaths and
injuries a day after Iran accepted a U.N. plan for ending the
8-year-old Persian Gulf war.
   Iran claimed it shot down three Iraqi warplanes while Iraq said
it downed two Iranian jet fighters.
   Iran said the nuclear power station in the gulf city of Bushehr
was damaged in the Iraqi raid, but the report from the official
Islamic Republic News Agency did not provide details. The
unfinished plant was bombed last November, and 11 people were
killed. Iran at the time claimed fissionable material was stored at
the site, but the report was never confirmed independently.
   The Iraqi fighters also damaged a petrochemical plant and other
industrial targets in Bushehr, according to the IRNA report
monitored in Cyprus.
   The unfinished petrochemical plant is a joint Japanese-Iranian
project. IRNA said Japan announced today it was willing to begin
talks on completing the project.
   The Iranian agency said the Iraqis also launched air raids near
the city of Ahvaz in the southwestern province of Khuzestan. ``They
were intercepted by heavy fire of the Iranian air defense
gunners,'' IRNA said.
   The agency said several people were killed and wounded in the
Iraqi attacks.
   The Iraqi military claimed it shot down two Iranian F-14 jet
fighters, one in a dogfight over the gulf near the Iraqi port of
Ammiq and another over Iraqi territory in the northern oil
producing city of Kirkuk.
   An unidentified military spokesman quoted by the Iraqi news
agency said the warplane downed over Kirkuk ``tried to violate
international borders to raid residential areas ... and our
anti-air defenses shot it down.''
   A Baghdad Radio report, also monitored in Cyprus, said all Iraqi
planes returned safely to base.
   IRNA quoted an unidentified air force commander as denying any
Iranian planes were lost. IRNA said Iran shot down three Iraqi
planes, two in dogfights over the gulf and one by anti-aircraft
guns. It did not say where the third plane went down.
   U.S. Navy officials in the gulf declined to comment on the
reports.
   On Monday, Iran announced it had agreed to a year-old United
Nations resolution for a cease-fire in its war with Iraq, which has
claimed an estimated 1 million lives.
   The cease-fire would not take effect until details are worked
out within a week to 10 days, U.N. Secretary General Javier Perez
de Cuellar said Monday.
   Iraq has regularly attacked Iranian shuttle tankers and key oil
terminals in the gulf in an effort to choke off its enemy's
revenue-earning exports. The last two reported Iraqi raids were on
July 14.
   The sources said it was not immediately clear what type of Iraqi
aircraft were involved in today's raids, but they are usually
French-built F-1 Mirages armed with Exocet missiles and other
aircraft that carry missiles and bombs.
   The Iraqi air activity began about 8 a.m. (1 a.m. EDT) and
continued more than two hours later, according to an informed
source in the gulf.
   An Iraqi aircraft was shot down over the central gulf, the
sources said, apparently by one of Iran's U.S.-built F-14 fighters,
some of which are known to be based at Bushehr.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0094 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0952EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p PM-CVN--StartingTime     07-19 0156</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-CVN--Starting Time,160</2ND_LINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Democratic National Convention will start at
3 p.m. EDT today, 90 minutes earlier than planned, to give
delegates more time to discuss any controversial issues in the
platform.
   Paul Kirk Jr., chairman of the Democratic National Committee,
said both the campaigns of Michael Dukakis, the presidential
nominee-to-be, and Jesse Jackson, who ran second in the primaries,
agreed to the change.
   Kirk said the party wanted to have ``free, open and comfortable
debate.'' without impinging on the time allotted to tonight's
speakers, including Jackson and Rep. William Gray, D-Pa.
   The delegates are to vote tonight on two minority platform
planks put forth by Jackson's supporters. They include a call to
raise taxes on the wealthy and a pledge against first use of
nuclear weapons.
   Delegates will debate a third Jackson minority plank on the
issue of a homeland for the Palestinians but will not vote on it,
Kirk said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0095 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0954EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-Britain-US-Soviet     07-19 0523</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Britain-US-Soviet,0547</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Soviets To Inspect U.S. Missile Facilities In Britain</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By MAUREEN JOHNSON</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>GREENHAM COMMON, England (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Soviet inspectors today arrived
at this air force base to perform the first check on U.S. cruise
missiles in Britain under the superpower treaty that is to
eliminate medium-range nuclear weapons from Europe.
   Twenty Soviet inspectors landed at Greenham Common, 50 miles
west of London, early this afternoon aboard an Aeroflot jet. The
Soviets were welcomed by a delegation of U.S. and British officers.
   The inspection visit is one of the terms of the
Intermediate-range Nuclear Forces treaty signed in Moscow on Dec. 8
by Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev and President Reagan.
   The treaty provides for the elimination within three years of
all nuclear missiles with ranges of 340 miles to 3,000 miles and
includes stringent inspection provisions to guard against cheating.
   Greenham Common is one of two U.S. cruise missile bases in
Britain. The other is at Molesworth, 50 miles north of London. Both
bases are run by U.S. Air Force personnel, but are technically
British Royal Air Force bases.
   Greenham Common has 96 operational missiles and five back-up
missiles, while there are another 16 operational missiles at
Molesworth, according to the U.S. military.
   At Greenham Common, a customs and immigration post was set up to
receive the Soviets and check the cameras, geiger counters and
other equipment they were allowed to bring for the inspection.
   They are to stay overnight in converted servicemen's
accommodations at Greenham Common, and are to eat meals at a
cafeteria on the base.
   Under the treaty, the inspectors may check the missiles and
their mobile launchers _ which are to be taken back to the United
States and destroyed _ but not the warheads.
   At the bases, the Soviets may also place security men at all
entry and exit roads to ensure no missiles are surreptitiously
moved out, the Defense Ministry said.
   ``We're entirely in the Soviets' hands,'' said Defense Ministry
spokesman Martin Helms. ``They will say where they want to go.''
   The inspectors, who will be flown to Molesworth from Greenham
Common, will not be allowed to step outside the bases during their
stay, which is expected to last up to 4{ days, or until the
inspection is completed.
   U.S. officers, mostly from an on-site inspection agency based in
West Germany, will accompany the Soviets as they examine the
missiles and launchers. Soviet inspectors first checked missiles in
Western Europe on July 1 at two West German sites housing
Pershing-2 rockets.
   The current inspections are part of a 60-day period of
``baseline inspections'' to determine the accuracy of data
exchanged by the two sides. The Soviets are visiting 30 sites in
the United States and Western Europe while U.S. inspectors are
visiting 133 Soviet sites.
   So far, no violations have been discovered, U.S. officials say,
and the inspections are about 25 percent complete.
   The Soviets notified the British of their visit on Monday,
officials said, under the 16-hour notice-of-inspection rule.
   In November 1983, Greenham Common was the first Western European
base to accept U.S. cruise missiles under a December 1979 NATO
alliance accord.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0096 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0959EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-AIDSEstimates     07-19 0280</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-AIDS Estimates,0287</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>NYC To Lower Estimate Of Number Of Residents Infected With HIV</HEAD>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   City health officials have lowered their
estimate of the number of New Yorkers infected with the AIDS virus
by nearly half, to 250,000, according to a report published today.
   The new estimate is based mainly on a reduction in the estimated
population of homosexual and bisexual men living in the city, The
New York Times reported.
   The new estimates were to be presented tonight to a panel headed
by Health Commissioner Stephen C. Joseph. The Times attributed the
250,000 estimate to an epidemiologist who worked on the figures.
   The previous estimated number of infected New Yorkers was
400,000, or one in every 18 city residents. Then-Health
Commissioner David Sencer released that figure in 1985 and called
it ``conservative.''
   In the earlier projections, health officials estimated there
were half a million gay and bisexual men in the city, with 60
percent believed to be infected. The new estimate is expected to be
cut roughly in half, with the percentage infected to remain the
same, the Times said.
   The number of infected intravenous drug users, who now account
for more new cases in the city than any other group, is not
expected to change.
   There is no known cure for acquired immune deficiency syndrome,
which is caused by a virus that attacks the body's immune system.
   Timothy Sweeney, deputy director of the Gay Men's Health Crisis,
told the Times he believes the figures undercount the gay
population.
   ``Everybody knows that big cities, and New York in particular,
act as a magnet and that there has been a great migration of
gays,'' he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0097 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1012EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-Obit-BragaSantos     07-19 0172</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Obit-Braga Santos,0181</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Portuguese Composer Dies At 64</HEAD>
<DATELINE>LISBON, Portugal (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Jose Manuel Braga Santos, one of
Portugal's leading composers and a conductor, died of a heart
attack at his home in Lisbon. He was 64.
   The composer died Monday, according to a spokesman for the
Radiodifusao Portuguesa radio network, where Braga Santos was a
music director.
   His six symphonies, as well as overtures, opera and choral works
have been performed by orchestras in Europe, the United States and
Japan.
   In 1966, Braga Santos' Fifth Symphony was awarded a United
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
International Composers' Tribune prize.
   The early works of the composer, who studied at the Lisbon
Conservatory and in Italy, were influenced by the Portuguese
Renaissance and traditional music from the southern Alentejo
region. He later developed a more chromatic and often dissonant
style.
   Braga Santos also conducted Portuguese orchestras, wrote musical
criticism for several newspapers and taught at the National
Conservatory.
   Funeral services were to held today at the Campo Grande Church
in Lisbon.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0098 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1019EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p PM-CVN--Protests 1stLd-Writethru a0493 07-19 0644</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-CVN--Protests, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0493,670</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Arrests at Anti-Abortion Blockade</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Top 8 grafs new to add arrests today and CORRECT spelling of
``Lenora'' in 5th graf pvs, Williams however</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By CAROLYN S. CARLSON</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Police arrested more than 100 anti-abortion
protesters today, early on the second day of the Democratic
National Convention.
   In midtown Atlanta, blocks from the convention site, 134 people
were charged with criminal trespassing, unlawful assembly or other
counts after trying to block access to a clinic where abortions are
performed.
   Police Maj. Ken Burnette said there was no violence.
   The protest started a third day of demonstrations at or near the
convention. Until today's anti-abortion rally only one arrest had
been reported.
   On Monday, black activists marched through downtown Atlanta to
protest the way prospective Democratic presidential nominee Michael
Dukakis has treated Jesse Jackson. But they got into a shouting
match with a leftist black candidate over her suggestion that they
bolt the Democratic Party.
   Meanwhile, gay rights activists staged a ``die-in'' memorial to
AIDS victims while police thwarted a gay ``kiss-in'' on Monday.
   The march to protest the treatment of Jackson was led by civil
rights activist Hosea Williams, who led the group to a protest zone
near the Democratic Convention hall. Williams has been an outspoken
critic of Jackson's in the past, but the banner in front of the
line read, ``Jesse, we're with you in '88. America is still
racist.''
   The marchers were greeted by Lenora Fulani, an independent
candidate on the leftist New Alliance ticket, who accused Dukakis
of being a ``white supremacist candidate.'' Ms. Fulani said she
would hold a ``people's convention'' outside The Omni convention
hall to offer herself as the best candidate for black America.
   Williams, however, urged the crowd not to turn its back on the
Democratic Party and twice wrestled with Ms. Fulani for control of
the microphone, saying, ``We are not going to let anybody run us
out of the Democratic Party.''
   When Williams left, Ms. Fulani turned the microphone over to the
Rev. Al Sharpton of New York, who called for justice for Tawana
Brawley, the New York teen-ager who says she was sexually and
racially abused by six white men in Dutchess County, N.Y., last
November.
   She appeared on the rally stage surrounded by her mother and a
knot of supporters but did not speak.
   In another demonstration, about 20 gay men and lesbian women
affiliated with a group called ACT UP, or AIDS Coalition to Unleash
Power, held a ``kiss-in'' in front of the Omni Hotel.
   Within minutes, about 80 riot-helmeted police, holding shields
and chanting ``move, move, move,'' forced the demonstrators about
1{ blocks past the designated demonstration area, where they were
taunted and spat on by groups of young men with shaved heads and
combat boots.
   One bystander was hit in the head by a rock and was taken to a
hospital for stitches, said Red Cross spokesman Bill Saye.
   Kevin Squatter, 19, hometown unknown, was arrested on a charge
of aggravated assault for allegedly throwing a rock that hit the
bystander, said Sandra Blount of the convention coordination center
in charge of security.
   At the ``die-in'' memorial, protesters drew chalk outlines
around others lying on the asphalt, while names of AIDS victims
were chalked in and read over loudspeakers.
   In another protest, anti-abortion activists, displaying aborted
fetuses to reporters and holding a banner branding Michael Dukakis
``The Duke Of Death,'' and an anti-war group known as No Business
As Usual.
   The No Business demonstrators, young people in ragged clothing,
some carrying skateboards, chanted, ``Pro-life is a lie; you don't
care if women die,'' and other slogans.
   Temperatures reached above 90 Monday and Red Cross officials
braced for a brisk week of treating heat exhaustion cases. About
two dozen protesters succumbed Sunday, and 30 to 40 were treated
Monday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0099 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1026EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i PM-Lebanon 1stLd-Writethru a0565 07-19 0456</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Lebanon, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0565,0465</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Shiite Moslem Clan Continues Attack On Christian Town</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Leads with 3 grafs to update with 5 dead, 25 wounded,
cease-fire called. Picks up 4th graf pvs ``The attacks ....''</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By MOHAMMED SALAM</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Moslem Shiite tribesmen bombarded a
Maronite Catholic town with rockets, howitzers and mortars for a
third day today. Police said five people were killed and 25 wounded.
   The flighting raised the casualty toll to 11 dead and 45 wounded
since clashes began Sunday between members of the Jaafar Shiite
clan and other residents of the Syrian-policed town of Qoubaiyat,
70 miles northeast of Beirut.
   A police spokesman in Tripoli, the provincial capital of north
Lebanon, said residents of Qoubaiyat early today repulsed three
major attacks by about 2,000 members of the Jaafar clan. A
cease-fire was called for 2 p.m., and police said the fighting
abated after that time.
   The attacks were preceded by a fierce barrage from rocket
launchers, howitzers and mortars, with shells slamming into
Qoubaiyat at the rate of about 10 rounds per minute, added the
spokesman, who spoke on condition of anonymity. He said several
mortar rounds fell into the courtyard of the town's ancient stone
church, causing some damage. The church houses six monks and 20
nuns, who were unhurt, he added.
   The spokesman said the clashes began Sunday, a day after armed
shepherds from Qoubaiyat and the Jaafars engaged in a brief
firefight over grazing rights in sheep pastures on the town's
western edge.
   ``Two people were killed in the original clash for pastures. But
it seems the incident has developed into a Shiite-Maronite war,''
the spokesman said. He spoke on condition of anonymity.
   The residents of Qoubaiyat appealed to Pope John Paul II in Rome
for ``immediate intervention to stop the military offensive against
our peaceful town.''
   The appeal said there were ``a number of wounded people trapped
in the town who need hospitalization.''
   Qoubaiyat, population 25,000, is the fourth largest Catholic
town in north Lebanon. Most of its younger men serve in the
Lebanese army.
   The Jaafar clan, estimated to number about 35,000 people, is
based in the central Bekaa Valley on the western edge of the Akkar
plateau, a region traditionally dominated by Maronite Catholics and
Sunni Moslems.
   The police spokesman said the Syrian command in north Lebanon
and the Bekaa Valley was ``in contact with representatives of the
two sides to work out a lasting cease-fire.''
   Syria, the main power broker in Lebanon, maintains 25,000 troops
in the Bekaa and north Lebanon under a 1976 peacekeeping mandate
from the 21-nation Arab League.
   About 15,000 Syrian troops also are deployed in Moslem west
Beirut and the city's predominantly Shiite southern slums.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0100 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1037EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p PM-CVN--Platform 2ndLd-Writethru a0577 07-19 0881</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-CVN--Platform, 2nd Ld-Writethru, a0577,920</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Platform Disputes Smoothed Out in Advance</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Updates with Pentagon plank, Norton quote, subbing 3 grafs
for 5th graf pvs, Eleanor Holmes</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By CHRISTOPHER CONNELL</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Jesse Jackson's campaign said today common ground
had been reached with Michael Dukakis' forces on most of Jackson's
minority platform planks but the Jackson camp will press floor
debate on three issues. Today's Democratic Convention session was
moved up to allow more time for debate.
   Jackson officials, in a written notice, said today there would
be debate on three planks for which he had filed minority versions
_ higher taxes on the wealthy, no first use of nuclear weapons and
Palestinian self-determination in the Middle East.
   However, they said they would not press the Middle East issue to
a vote.
   The Dukakis delegates were expected to easily defeat Jackson on
the higher-taxes and nuclear-weapons issues, but today's convention
starting time was moved up from 4:30 p.m. to 3 p.m. EDT to allow
time to air the issues.
   The Jackson campaign's major concession was to drop a call for a
five-year freeze on Pentagon spending.
   Eleanor Holmes Norton, Jackson's chief platform negotiator, told
a news conference, ``Jackson has had a grater impact on this
platform than any candidate other than a nominee in memory.''
   She said of the Palestinian homeland issue on CBS-TV today,
``Our supporters were anxious to have the issue debated, not
necesssarily voted. ... What was sought was an agreement that would
keep our party together and avoid the dissonance.''
   But she said in regard to the Jackson plank that would pledge no
first use of nuclear weapons, ``We are going to the floor on that.
The Soviet Union has said it. It's much more in the American
tradition to say that.''
   Current U.S. and NATO policy would allow first use in the event
of a Soviet invasion of Europe.
   The Jackson campaign, in its written update, said, ``We have
reached common ground on nine of the minority planks advocated by
our campaign,'' including acceptance of Jackson's minority plank on
the budget.
   That plank says, ``Investing in America and reducing the deficit
requires that the wealthy and corporations pay their fair share and
that we restrain Pentagon spending.''
   Other Jackson proposals will be included in the platform
compromise language, including expanded support for prenatal care,
Head Start and education.
   The platform negotiators resumed their talks Monday after a
six-day hiatus caused by tension between Jackson and Dukakis.
   The Jackson campaign said that ``our major impact on the
platform has been in the document itself (which) already reflects
the guiding principles of our campaign: declaring South Africa a
terrorist state, our five-point program to fight drugs, political
empowerment and many more.''
   Campaign lieutenants negotiated late into the night over the
details of resolving the minority positions Jackson wanted in the
streamlined, 4,500-word platform.
   ``I expect we won't have a marathon session,'' Michigan Gov.
James J. Blanchard, chairman of the platform committee, said Monday.
   Blanchard says the platform, shorn of the usual special-interest
rhetoric, is compact enough to fit on a poster.
   The agreement not to wage a drawn-out platform fight followed a
Monday morning meeting in which Jackson pledged party unity and
Michael Dukakis promised to increase Jackson's role in the party.
   The platform talks had been suspended last Tuesday when Dukakis
failed to give Jackson early notice of his selection of Lloyd
Bentsen as a running mate.
   Both Dukakis and Jackson said they anticipated some issues would
be left to the 4,162 delegates to decide.
   Jackson said Monday night on the Cable News Network: ``There
will be key planks to be debated tomorrow night. ... We are
committed to having new budget priorities.''
   Rep. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, a co-chair of the Platform
Committee, said early today he thought there would be just ``a
slight floor fight.''
   Richardson said defense was where the Jackson forces had ``the
chance to make the most inroads'' on Dukakis' majority.
   In a Platform Committee session in Denver June 25, the Dukakis
forces rejected several cornerstone Jackson campaign positions,
including his call for higher taxes on the wealthy, a Pentagon
budget freeze, Palestinian self-determination and a U.S. policy of
no first use of nuclear weapons.
   Actor Ed Begley of television's ``St. Elsewhere,'' a Dukakis
delegate from California, was among many delegates sporting ``No
First Use'' stickers at Monday night's opening session.
   Other Jackson minority planks called for full funding of Head
Start and the Women, Infants and Children nutrition program, and
doubling the education budget.
   AFL-CIO President Lane Kirkland told the 751 labor delegates
they were free ``to dance with the candidates you came with'' on
platform fights. The National Education Association, which has 291
delegates, voted Sunday to take Jackson's side on the education
plank.
   The 4,500-word proposed platform is the Democrats' shortest in
five decades.
   Borrowing a phrase from Republican nominee-to-be George Bush, it
promises to reverse the ``voodoo economics'' of the Reagan
administration, bolster programs for the needy and maintain ``more
stable defense budgets.'' Tailored largely to Dukakis'
specifications, it includes many of Jackson's positions as well,
including a condemnation of South Africa as ``a terrorist state.''
   The platform is the main order of convention business today
before a prime-time speech by Jackson.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0101 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1054EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>d a PM-BRF--SpiderHouse     07-19 0185</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-BRF--Spider House,0190</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Spiders Invade Church-Owned House; Congregation Votes To Sell It</HEAD>
<DATELINE>SPARTA, Tenn. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The brown recluse spiders in the parsonage
of the First United Methodist Church have become far too
gregarious, and the congregation has decided to surrender.
   The Rev. Neal Glass moved his family out last week after finding
the aggressive spiders crawling on curtains, laundry and bathroom
towels.
   ``Most everybody we talked to had a relative or friend who had
been bitten with serious repercussions,'' Glass said. However, he
said the spiders left his family alone.
   The congregation voted to sell the house just after it paid an
exterminator $4,725 to seal the house in plastic and fumigate it.
Glass said the spiders survived 16 previous treatments.
   ``We feel like we definitely could get more for the parsonage
after it was treated and we could say it positively was free of the
spiders,'' Glass said. ``It would be a fire sale otherwise.''
   Pest control company officials said three mild winters and this
year's dry, hot summer have favored the brown recluse population.
   The spider's poison causes painful, itchy welts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0102 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1058EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w PM-Bush-Democrats     07-19 0222</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Bush-Democrats,210</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Bush Spokeswoman Says Democrats' Barb About Bush Was `Thin'</HEAD>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   George Bush probably didn't catch Democratic
keynoter Ann Richards' barb that he had ``a silver foot in his
mouth,'' but a campaign spokeswoman said today Americans ``are more
interested in leadership than laugh lines.''
   ``Her audience liked it. I'm not sure how well it will play
everywhere else. I don't think nastiness ever plays very well,''
said Bush's press secretary, Sheila Tate.
   Bush, fishing in Wyoming with Treasury Secretary James A. Baker
III, had no plans to watch or listen to the Democratic National
Convention, and thus likely missed Monday night's keynote address,
Ms. Tate said.
   In that speech, Ms. Richards, who is Texas' state treasurer,
brought roars of delight from Democrats with her ``silver foot''
line.
   ``I do think it played well to that liberal convention crowd.
But I thought it was thin on substance, thinner on facts and I
thought it was thinnest on any vision,'' Ms. Tate said.
   ``It seems to me that people are more interested in leadership
than in laugh lines,'' she added.
   The spokeswoman said that, while Bush likely didn't hear any of
the speech, ``I'm sure we'll tell him about it.''
   ``He wanted to stare at a fish eye, not the CBS eye or the NBC
peacock,'' Ms. Tate said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0103 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1104EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-Soviet-Unrest 1stLd-Writethru a0547 07-19 0706</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Soviet-Unrest, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0547,0726</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Gorbachev Calls Leaders Of Armenian Unification Drive Corrupt</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: New grafs 12-14 ``Tass today....'' to update with Tass report
on Presidium's decision. Picks up 13th graf pvs ``A journalist...''</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By JOHN-THOR DAHLBURG</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>MOSCOW (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Mikhail S. Gorbachev accused leaders of the
Armenian unification movement of exploiting a territorial dispute
to hide their hostility to his drive for reform, Radio Moscow
reported today.
   The Soviet leader spoke Monday to the country's highest
executive body, the Supreme Soviet, which rejected the movement to
unite the Nagorno-Karabakh region of the Azerbaijan republic with
neighboring Armenia.
   He charged that leaders of the campaign were conservative and
corrupt and had ``stuffed their wallets'' before he came to power,
Radio Moscow said.
   An Armenian journalist said today that the campaign of civil
disobedience was continuing in the southern republics despite the
Supreme Soviet's decision Monday.
   Most of Nagorno-Karabakh's residents are Armenian, although the
enclave has no common borders with Armenia.
   Since February, Armenians have been waging a sometimes violent
campaign for transfer of Nagorno-Karabakh from Azerbaijan, which is
mainly Moslem and has had control of the disputed region since 1923.
   Many voiced hopes that the greater democratization and openness
under Gorbachev would lead to the Kremlin's acceptance of their
demands.
   In massive demonstrations that began in Yerevan, Armenia's
capital, in late February, many participants carried portraits of
Gorbachev to emphasize their faith in the Communist Party chief.
   But Radio Moscow said Gorbachev told the Presidium Monday that
he favored ``the need to reaffirm the existing realities.''
   He also said ``the so-called Karabakh issue was being used as a
smokescreen by opponents of perestroika, by conservative and
corrupt people who stuffed their wallets in the period of
stagnation,'' Radio Moscow reported in its international
English-language service.
   Gorbachev's harsh remarks and the Presidium's ruling, which the
official Tass news agency said was unanimous, seemed certain to
fuel more unrest among Armenians, who consider Nagorno-Karabakh
part of their historic homeland.
   Tass today distributed the first detailed summary of the
Presidium's decision, which said a change of Nagorno-Karabakh's
status was impossible under the Soviet Constitution.
   Under article 78 of the 1977 Soviet Constitution, the territory
of a constituent republic may not be altered without its consent,
the Presidium noted. ``A different decision would contradict the
fundamental interests of the peoples of both republics, and cause
serious harm to interethnic relations in the region,'' it said.
   The Presidium also ordered authorities in Armenia and Azerbaijan
to take measures to halt the strikes and the protest campaign
sparked by the Nagorno-Karabakh dispute.
   A journalist with the Gostelradio state broadcasting authority
in Stepanakert, Nagorno-Karabakh's capital, said the Kremlin's
refusal to change the region's status would not halt the annexation
campaign.
   ``The general strike is continuing,'' the journalist said. ``The
Armenian people will continue their struggle for Nagorno-Karabakh
until the bitter end.''
   The Presidium, which is headed by Soviet President Andrei A.
Gromyko, has more than 30 members, including top leaders from each
of the country's 15 constituent republics.
   He said he did not believe that Armenia's representative on the
Supreme Soviet's Presidium had voted to keep Nagorno-Karabakh part
of Azerbaijan.
   On Monday night, Mofsis Gorgisyan, an advocate of the
unification campaign who lives in Yerevan, estimated the number of
security troops patrolling the city of 1.1 million people swelled
to 200,000 in the previous 24 hours.
   ``I knew earlier what the decision would be from the number of
troops here,'' Gorgisyan said. ``I knew there would be no
compromise.''
   However, a police officer at the republic's Ministry of Internal
Affairs said by telephone today that there were no troops on
Yerevan's streets.
   ``Everything's quiet here; there are no soldiers, and
everybody's working,'' said the policeman, who hung up before he
could be asked his name.
   A general strike was called in May in Nagorno-Karabakh to press
Armenians' demands over the annexation issue. A sympathy strike
began on July 4 in Yerevan, but speakers at a weekend rally urged
people to return to work in expectation of the Presidium meeting.
   Tensions caused by the territorial dispute also led to ethnic
rioting in the Azerbaijani city of Sumgait on Feb. 28. Officials
said 32 people, 26 of them Armenians, were killed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0104 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1119EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>d a PM-BRF--GunControl     07-19 0135</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-BRF--Gun Control,0139</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Secretary of State Validates Anti-Gun Control Petitions</HEAD>
<DATELINE>ANNAPOLIS, Md. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Gun control opponents have gathered enough
signatures to force a referendum on Maryland's new handgun control
law, the secretary of state said today.
   Secretary of State Winfield M. Kelly Jr. declared 35,254 of
48,435 petition signatures valid, according to a spokesman for Gov.
William Donald Schaefer.
   Louise Hayman said 33,045 valid signatures were needed to put
the issue on the November ballot.
   The legislation approved earlier this year bans the sale of
cheap handguns and establishes a nine-member committee to decide
what handguns may be manufactured and sold in the state.
   The legislation also reversed a state court ruling that people
shot with cheap, easily concealable handguns sometimes known as
``Saturday Night Specials'' may sue the gun's manufacturer for
damages.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0105 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1132EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>d a PM-Wedtech-Wallach     07-19 0246</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Wedtech-Wallach,0253</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Judge Sets Jan. 3 Trial Date for Ex-Meese Associates</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JOHN M. DOYLE</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The next Wedtech corruption trial, which
involves two former associates of Attorney General Edwin Meese III,
won't begin until early next year.
   U.S. District Judge Richard Owen scheduled a Jan. 3 start for
the trial of attorney E. Robert Wallach, 53, a longtime Meese
friend, former Meese financial consultant W. Franklyn Chinn, 45,
and R. Kent London, 44, a Chinn business associate.
   The date guarantees the corruption trial, with its potential for
politically embarrassing the Reagan administration, won't take
place until after the November presidential election.
   Prosecutors asked Owen for an earlier date but the defense said
it needed more time and one defense attorney said he would be tied
up in other trials until early December.
   Wallach and Chinn, of San Francisco, and London, of Honolulu,
are charged in a racketeering conspiracy with allegedly extracting
millions of dollars from Wedtech Corp., a now-bankrupt defense
contractor, to influence Meese and other officials. All three have
pleaded innocent.
   Meese was not charged with any wrongdoing and a special
prosecutor in Washington, while critical of the attorney general's
conduct regarding Wedtech and other matters, decided there was not
enough evidence to indict him.
   Meese plans to leave office by early August.
   Another Wedtech-related racketeering trial involving Rep. Mario
Biaggi, D-N.Y., Wedtech founder John Mariotta and five others is
nearing completion at federal court in Manhattan.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0106 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1134EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p PM-CVN--For$50Million 1stLd-Writethru a0472 07-19 0861</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-CVN--For $50 Million, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0472,840</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Greasing the Wheels of the Dukakis Fund-Raising Machine</HEAD>
<NOTE>EDS: INSERTS new graf 21 with $12 million collection; picks up pvs
graf 21: While the</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By GARY LANGER</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Texas oilman G.P. Cokinos watched in joyful
reverie as a roomful of his fellow Dukakis fund-raisers danced to a
blaring band. ``I am having one of the finest times of my life,''
he yelled over the din.
   The Michael Dukakis campaign wouldn't have it any other way. The
financial juggernaut of the primary season is greasing the wheels
this week for a $50 million effort this fall by courting big money
with a fervor rare in Democrats.
   ``I have 14 events today. Five dinners! And I'm trying to lose
weight,'' said Robert Farmer, mastermind of the Dukakis money
machine. ``It's like a six-day party where everybody you ever met
is there, and you're the host.''
   This host wants the most. The Democrats long have lagged in fund
raising, relying instead on their political networks. No more, said
Farmer: ``We're going to create a level playing field with the
Republicans for the first time in my lifetime.''
   To even come close, the effort requires platoons of wealthy,
motivated fund-raisers. So in Atlanta, with a barrage of
celebrity-packed parties, the campaign is courting monied men and
women for all they're worth.
   For starters, there are the 1,100 Dukakis backers who each
raised at least $10,000, and some more than $50,000, in the
primaries. There are old-line fat cats from the financial capitals.
And there are scores of supporters of the vanquished Democratic
candidates.
   ``They have taken all of the Gore people, all of the Gephardt
people,'' said Howard Glicken, formerly a top money man for Rep.
Richard Gephardt's Florida campaign. When Gephardt dropped out of
the Democratic race, Glicken said, he didn't call the Dukakis
people. ``They called me.''
   That kind of organization is Farmer's hallmark. Fund-raisers are
thanked with notes, calls, personal visits. The campaign arranged
their flights and hotel rooms for convention week. Each has a full
schedule of strategy sessions.
   And there are the parties.
   ``There's something every day, social as well as business,''
said Frank Salafia, a Lawrence, Mass, chiropractor. ``This is part
of what Michael's all about. He doesn't forget people. He's not
afraid to say `thank you'.''
   One of the first events, billed as a Greek festival, was a
classic of political stroking. Dukakis wasn't in town, but his son
and daughter-in-law greeted the crowd at a downtown mall with the
news that she was pregnant.
   Cheers. Then Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., announced,
``Actually, I'm Greek.'' More cheers.
   Then Alpha Omega Sound started spinning out the dance tunes. The
costumed dancers of Troupe Hellas hit the floor. The wine and beer
and soft drinks flowed. Heaps of souvlaki were served. Farmer
worked the crowd.
   ``It is very pleasing to be made to feel a part of the family,''
said Atlanta computer consultant Krishna Srinivasa. ``I am not
Greek. But I feel Greek here _ getting Greek food, listening to
Greek music. They are turning us all into Greeks.''
   Not that Indians won't do nicely. Two friends of Srinivasa,
Rameshwar Singh of San Jose, Calif., and Himmat Kulharya of Dallas
said they'd raised $90,000 for Dukakis in the Indian-American
community.
   Chiropractor Salafia said he'd come up with ``sizable''
donations. Cokinos, an effusive Beaumont, Texas, oilman, proudly
pulled a photocopied $10,000 check from his wallet and said he'd
raised more than $25,000 in all.
   ``When Cokinos calls, they give me some attention,'' he said of
the Dukakis campaign. ``They could not treat me nicer. I asked for
some press credentials and they turned me down so nicely I was
almost sorry I asked.''
   As well as they've done for Dukakis, these men will have to
increase their production vastly to reach the big leagues.
   Farmer so far has recruited 135 people to raise or donate
$100,000 each for the general election. He wants $20 million from
that effort. Another $20 million is supposed to come from 30
traditional fund-raising dinners that Dukakis will attend around
the country. And $10 million is sought through smaller mail-in
donations.
   The law says only that $8.3 million of the total can be used
directly for Dukakis. The rest of his ``hard money'' is $46 million
in federal financing. The vast bulk of the cash that Farmer is
seeking is ``soft money,'' earmarked for general party-building
activities in each state.
   Party officials said Monday they already had collected $12
million toward their goal.
   While the Democrats like to stress their reliance on small
donations, the focus this week is on the big-ticket givers. The
poshest parties include one held by Atlanta developer John Portman,
and another honoring former President Carter is being hosted by
longtime fund-raiser Walter Shorenstein of San Francisco.
   At each event, lavish or not, is the ever-attentive Bob Farmer.
He even got in a plug at the biggest gathering of all, the
convention itself.
   ``If you'll excuse me now,'' he told the delegates after a short
speech Monday night, ``I have a few fund-raising calls to make for
Gov. Dukakis.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0107 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1142EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-RunawayCar     07-19 0241</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Runaway Car,0248</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Families Of Children Victims Urge Leniency For Elderly Driver</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By LISA PERLMAN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>GRAND RAPIDS, Mich. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The families of three children killed
when an elderly man's car careened onto a sidewalk have persuaded
authorities not to prosecute the man.
   But Stanley Dlugolenski will have to give up his car and
driver's license in the interest of public safety, said Kent County
Prosecutor William Forsyth.
   Dlugolenski, 79, told police he lost control of his car when the
brakes failed, but authorities concluded last week the Cadillac
involved in the July 8 accident didn't have any mechanical defect.
   The decision not to prosecute was heavily influenced by the
victims' families, who are Dlugolenski's neighbors, Forsyth said.
   ``It's unusual for a family to feel this way, and it's a factor
we had to give a lot of weight to,'' Forsyth said.
   Jody Murray, mother of 1{-year-old R.J. Murray, who was killed
in the crash, said she believes Dlugolenski ``did everything in his
power to avoid (the accident).''
   The other two children killed in the crash were Jason Northrup,
9, and his sister, Marlene, 7. The three were struck as they played
on the sidewalk in front of their homes.
   ``He feels horrible about what happened,'' Forsyth said. ``I'm
sure he'd love to undo what happened.''
   Dlugolenski has had three prior accidents and told authorities
his accelerator stuck in at least one of those accidents, Forsyth
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0108 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1150EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-NewspaperCarrier     07-19 0210</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Newspaper Carrier,0215</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Newspaper Carrier Helps Save Elderly Woman</HEAD>
<DATELINE>AKRON, Ohio (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A 15-year-old newspaper carrier may have
saved a 94-year-old woman's life when he noticed that she was not
collecting her newspapers, police said.
   David Wallace alerted his supervisors at the Beacon Journal on
Sunday after he noticed the woman had not picked up her morning
newspaper for two days. They called police after getting no answer
at the woman's apartment door.
   Officer Ron Deger said police broke into the apartment and found
the woman lying in her bed, unconscious but breathing.
   The unidentified woman was taken to Akron General Medical
Center, where doctors said Monday that she had made tremendous
recovery, going from critical to fair condition.
   Wallace said he has worked the paper route for eight months and
knew it was unusual that the woman had not picked up her papers
right away.
   He said at first he thought she might be on vacation, but said
his customers usually notify him if they are going to be away.
   ``She seems like a nice lady,'' said Wallace. ``I didn't have
that much contact with her because she paid by mail, but she's
always friendly when I see her and even gave me a bonus last
Christmas.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0109 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1151EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-Soviet-ArmsTreaty     07-19 0425</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Soviet-Arms Treaty,0436</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Soviets Said Ready To Scrap Krasnoyarsk Radar</HEAD>
<DATELINE>MOSCOW (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The chief of Soviet arms negotiations said today
the Kremlin will scrap a radar station the United States claims
violates the anti-ballistic missile treaty if Washington commits
itself to the pact for at least 10 years.
   However, Viktor P. Karpov, chief of the Foreign Ministry's
disarmament section, repeated the Kremlin's contention that the
Krasnoyarsk radar station in Siberia is ``aimed at monitoring space
objects'' and is thus not covered by the 1972 treaty. The pact
restricts both superpowers' defenses against nuclear missiles.
   Some advisers to President Reagan are said to be recommending
that he accuse the Soviet Union of committing a ``material breach''
of the treaty by operating the phrased-array radar station. They
reportedly want him to abrogate the pact.
   Other Reagan advisers have suggested Reagan try to persuade the
Soviets to level the facility in the interest of preserving the ABM
treaty.
   According to the Pentagon, a phrased-array radar is able to
track many object accurately, meaning it could detect ballistic
missiles and could potentially contribute to ABM battle management.
   Karpov told a news briefing that construction work at the radar
station has been stopped as a sign of ``good will.''
   ``This moratorium is still in force,'' said the diplomat, who
once headed the Kremlin negotiating team at the Geneva arms talks.
Superpower representatives are now negotiating a 50 percent cut in
strategic nuclear weapons.
   Karpov said Soviet envoys were seeking an agreement that would
commit the superpowers to observing the ABM treaty for at least 10
years. He called that commitment ``the necessary element'' for
reaching an accord on halving superpower strategic arsenals.
   ``In this framework we are prepared also for a radical solution
to the Krasnoyarsk radar issue raised by the Americans,'' Karpov
said.
   ``If an understanding to abide by the ABM treaty, as signed in
1972, is reached, the Soviet Union will be ready to dismantle the
Krasnoyarsk radar in a verifiable way that would leave no doubts on
the part of the United States,'' he said.
   The ABM treaty limits how fast and far the United States can go
in its search for a space-based defense against ballistic missiles.
The so-called ``Star Wars'' program is being carried out under what
the Reagan administration describes as a ``strict interpretation''
of the treaty.
   A broader interpretation would provide more leeway, and
scrapping the treaty would remove all legal restraints on the U.S.
program, which the Soviets oppose as a new and dangerous turn in
the superpower arms race.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0110 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1152EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u p PM-CVN--Dukakis-Jackson 1stLd-Writethru a0538 07-19 0923</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-CVN--Dukakis-Jackson, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0538,960</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>RETRANSMITTING to fix keyword designation</HEAD>
<HEAD>Dukakis Aide Says Face-to-Face Talks Were `Frank, Candid'</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Updates with Dukakis aide on frank talks, Jackson comments
today in top 11 grafs, picking up in 5th graf pvs, Jackson will</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By RITA BEAMISH</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Michael Dukakis is promising Jesse Jackson a
substantial role in the fall campaign and the money to carry it
out, in what Jackson supporters say is a step toward bringing
Jackson's constituency into the fold.
   Meanwhile, a senior Dukakis aide said today there was no
tiptoeing around major issues when the two candidates finally met
Monday to work out the agreement.
   ``I will say it was one of the most frank and candid discussions
I've ever been involved in,'' said the aide, who commented only on
condition his name not be used. ``It was a very open discussion
with both sides agreeing, as the Rev. Jackson put it, that it would
serve no good to allow their ships to pass in the night.''
   The aide said Sen. Lloyd Bentsen, Dukakis' running mate,
participated only in only last few minutes of the talks, but that
the others made sure he agreed with everything that had been worked
out.
   The bottom line from the meeting, Jackson backers said, was that
the challenger will get the respect he thinks he earned in winning
7 million votes in the primaries and registering thousands of
voters along the way.
   The two men, along with Bentsen, forged a unified front for the
November election, publicly ending days of tension between the
campaigns that followed Dukakis' selection of Bentsen a week ago
today _ and the governor's failure to give Jackson advance word.
   Today, at a civil rights breakfast, Jackson said, ``We can't
just join the circle. We got to keep pushing the circle back.''
   Later, Jackson worked privately, with advisers, on his
convention speech for tonight. ``We're still trying to put it
together,'' he said.
   Bentsen, too, addressed the audience at the civil rights
breakfast, praising Jackson for doing ``more on his own for the
cause of freedom and justice, more than the Reagan administration
has been able to achieve in the last eight years.''
   Bentsen also said, ``No one can doubt Michel Dukakis' commitment
to civil rights; no one can doubt my commitment.''
   In the Dukakis-Jackson news conference Monday and in a later
briefing by their top aides, these details of the two camps'
agreement were revealed:
   _Jackson will keep much of his organization intact, paid for by
party funds, and will continue to campaign for the Democratic
ticket.
   _His travel costs will be paid. ``If the man's got to travel,
we're not going to let him fly commercial,'' said Joseph Warren, a
longtime Dukakis supporter who has been involved in the
negotiations. ``Make no mistake about it. What Jesse needs, Jesse
will get.''
   _Members of Jackson's team will be integrated into the Dukakis
campaign at all levels, although Dukakis aide Paul Brountas
indicated it was not automatic everyone would have a job.
   _Jackson supporters will get close to half the 25 at-large
members of the Democratic National Committee to be appointed
Friday, and a new DNC vice chair.
   The dramatic news conference just hours before Monday's kickoff
of the Democratic National Convention came after a meeting that
started with breakfast and moved in phases through a review of the
campaign, discussion of the rift and then an agreement on a new
relationship.
   Hours later, Jackson said that while he would be involved in the
campaign, Dukakis must reach out to his followers as well.
   ``Gov. Dukakis must convey to those persons that ... he cares
for them, that they are on his agenda. When it is all said and
done, the nominee must convince people,'' Jackson said.
   Both camps said specifics are still to be worked out now that
the principals have reached agreement on what Jackson called ``a
relationship of substance and support and candor.''
   That was something the Jackson forces had said their leader was
not getting from Dukakis in previous discussions, which were
characterized as cordial but superficial.
   A top Jackson adviser, Ron Brown, who attended the meeting with
the candidates and with Dukakis aide Paul Brountas said that
although the candidates had met many times, ``I doubt very much
whether any conversation of the depth of the one held this
morning'' had previously occurred.
   Jackson's close ally, Rep. Ron Dellums, D-Calif., said the
agreement would give Dukakis ``more credibility'' with Jackson's
supporters, but added, ``It remains to be seen whether the people
who have been turned off over the past few days can be turned on
again.''
   Dukakis was asked if his embrace of Jackson carried a risk of
alienating some of the important conservative Southern swing voters
that his campaign is seeking through the selection of Bentsen.
   ``That never really has been a problem,'' he replied.
   Jackson said he wanted ``no salary, no title and no job'' out of
the arrangement. He said he is better off not to take a formal
position because then ``I would be in the employ. That's not a good
role for me to play.''
   ``He is going to be involved actively and fully in a way that
will bring us together,'' said Dukakis, who praised Jackson for
registering ``more voters than anybody in this country.''
   Pledging to work for the Democratic ticket, Jackson did not
formally endorse the Dukakis-Bentsen team, saying he still plans to
place his own name in nomination for president against Dukakis.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0111 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1205EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u a PM-WildfiresRdp 1stLd-Writethru a0536 07-19 0776</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Wildfires Rdp, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0536,0795</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Western Forest Fires Char 725,000 Acres</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Leads with two grafs to update acreage total and Wyoming
todal, picking up 3rd graf pvs; SUBS 14th graf, ``In California
xxx, and grafs 19-20, ``Full containment xxx, to update acreages,
fire efforts</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By JONATHAN OATIS</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   More than 1,700 firefighters were winning the battle today
against wildfires that have blackened about 50,000 acres in five
Western states, but one of 54 Alaskan blazes that charred 675,000
acres forced crews to retreat into a river.
   ``We're holding our own,'' Terry Fletcher of the U.S. Forest
Service said Monday as a blaze in the Bridger-Teton National
Forest's Teton Wilderness in northwestern Wyoming slowed after
charring 14,000 acres in four days. However, officials said the
fire could continue until snow falls.
   The fires in Wyoming, Alaska, California, Oregon, Montana and
Colorado, many caused by lightning, began as early as Thursday, but
crews in most of the Western states reported progress in battling
the wildfires.
   In Alaska, however, 54 wildfires had consumed more than 675,000
acres by Monday.
   Nearly a third of the acreage went up in a blaze near Livengood,
about 60 miles northwest of Fairbanks, said U.S. Bureau of Land
Management spokeswoman Sue Mitchell.
   A 6,100-acre fire in central Alaska's Selawik National Wildlife
Refuge jumped the Koyukuk River, forcing firefighters to seek
refuge on river gravel bars until the flames abated, Mitchell said.
In the Waring Mountains, 327 firefighters made extended fire lines
around a 117,000-acre blaze, she said.
   Crews fighting the lightning-ignited fire in the Wyoming forest
have not been able to use bulldozers because the mountain region is
a protected wilderness, limiting them to picks, shovels and
backpack water tanks.
   Seven helicopters ferried in crews and equipment, and two fresh
20-member crews joined the fight Monday.
   To the north, officials at Yellowstone National Park monitored
six fires covering about 11,000 acres near the nation's oldest
national park. In Yellowstone's backcountry, campfire restrictions
were imposed and some campsites were closed.
   In Northern California, two fires near Jackson about 45 miles
east of Sacramento forced the evacuation of 20 homes Monday and
destroyed a house and two outbuildings, said state forestry
spokesman Bob Heal, who put damage at $200,000.
   One fire was 65 percent contained after consuming 600 acres,
while the other was contained after charring 53 acres, said Heal.
   About 10 miles to the southeast near San Andreas, 250
firefighters had a 400-acre blaze half contained after at least six
air tankers attacked the fire, said forestry spokeswoman Sharon
Torrence.
   Authorities said they suspected the blazes resulted from arson.
   In Southern California, bulldozers cut a mile-long path across a
mountain ridge and firefighters lit backfires in century-old stands
of brush to try to contain a 2,600-acre wildfire in the Los Padres
National Forest east of San Luis Obispo, said Joe Pasinato of the
U.S. Forest Service.
   About 650 firefighters from across the state and as far away as
the Midwest struggled in temperatures in the high 90s. One
firefighter suffered a broken ankle and another smoke inhalation,
Pasinato said.
   Firefighters, aided by a seven-aircraft fleet of tankers and
helicopters, hoped to contain the fire by this evening and to have
it under control by Wednesday night, he said.
   In northwestern Colorado, firefighters expected today to contain
brush-fueled blazes that burned more than 20,000 acres.
Firefighting was hampered by high temperatures and dry weather.
   The largest fire was the 15,000-acre ``I Do'' blaze seven miles
southwest of the little town of Maybell, said Mary Pressley, a
spokeswoman for the federal Bureau of Land Management. The fire got
its name from the marriage of one firefighter over the weekend.
   Full containment _ establishment of a fire line around the blaze
_ was predicted for 4 p.m. today, with control to come on
Wednesday, she said.
   In southern Oregon's Siskiyou National Forest, firefighters
today stopped the spread of a forest blaze that broke out near the
edge of the biggest of last year's devastating forest fires in the
region.
   Although the blaze was small, 120 firefighters were rushed to
the area to keep it from consuming tinder-dry timber killed in a
fire last year. Three airplanes were called in to drop fire
retardants on the blaze.
   In Montana, 32 state and local firefighters fought a 20- to
40-acre fire on a mountain ridge west of Clinton.
   At the western edge of Missoula, a grassfire started by a
welding torch burned a $4,000-$5,000 mobile home on a sales lot,
said fire official Tom Goheen.
   About 15 fires in eastern Montana were contained or controlled
Monday, said Mark Ahner of the Bureau of Land Management.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0112 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1226EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-Drought-Lyng     07-19 0267</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Drought-Lyng,0276</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Agriculture Secretary Visits Shelby County Farm</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By RICH HARRIS</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>SHELBY, Ohio (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng had
to dodge raindrops today as he got a firsthand look at how Ohio has
been affected by the drought.
   Lyng, Gov. Richard Celeste and state Agriculture Director Steve
Maurer visited John Scherer's farm in this north-central Ohio
community, where nearly an inch of rain had fallen by morning.
   It was the first stop on a three-day tour that will take Lyng to
Ohio, Indiana, Missouri, Iowa, South Dakota, North Dakota,
Minnesota, Wisconsin and Michigan.
   Lyng said he expected the drought to seriously damage crops
across the country and estimated the corn precline
by at least 25 percent.
   Higher than average losses are anticipated in Ohio, Lyng said.
   ``This has always been a reliable production area,'' Lyng said,
adding that might account for the low oduction would dpercentage of farmers
with
federal crop insurance. The insurance is required to benefit from a
disaster declaration Lyng signed last week for farmers in Ohio and
Missouri.
   Scherer, whose primary crop is corn, said Lyng seemed warm and
receptive to the plight of farmers.
   ``The corn's over the hill, even with more rain,'' Scherer said,
but ``with the bills they're working on, if they can work together,
I think we can get some relief.''
   Scherer said Lyng and  on this
issue,'' said Stuart Comstock-Gay, director of the Maryland Chapter
of the American Civil Liberties Union, which filed a
friend-of-the-court brief arguing that the use of gloves justified
a new trial.
   ``It's like requiring a defendant to wear a prison uniform
before a jury,'' he said. ``We argued that the use of gloves starts
to stack the deck, in the jury's mind, toward a presumption that
the defendant is bad or different, and therefore guilty of
something.''
   ``A lot of courts and administrators are trying to formulate a
policy on how to deal with AIDS defendants, and so there is a lot
of use of the gloves in courtrooms around the country right now,''
said Nan Hunter, head of the national ACLU's AIDS and Civil
Liberties Project in New York.
   The virus that causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome is
transmitted through sexual acts or the sharing of hypodermic
syringes. Medical authorities say it is not transmitted through
casual contact.
   As the trial began, Judge Jacob S. Levin gave the court clerk
and bailiff permission to wear gloves.
   Defense attorneys asked for a mistrial.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0113 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1240EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>d a AM-BRF--ElvisMovies     07-19 0147</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-BRF--Elvis Movies,0151</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Judge: Elvis Buddy Can't Sell Home Movies</HEAD>
<DATELINE>MEMPHIS, Tenn. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A former member of Elvis Presley's
entourage cannot sell his home movies of the king of rock 'n' roll,
a judge says.
   Joe Esposito, a personal aide to Presley, wants to sell copies
of the movies, but managers of the dead singer's estate say they
have the sole rights to market his name and image.
   Chancellor Neal Small, granting a request from the estate,
issued a temporary injunction Monday directing Esposito not to sell
the movies until a lawsuit over the dispute is settled.
   The movies reportedly include shots of Presley, relatives and
friends at Graceland, where Presley died in 1977.
   Graceland, one of Memphis' largest tourist attractions, is
managed by the Presley estate for the financial benefit of the
singer's only child, Lisa Marie.
   No trial for the lawsuit was scheduled.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0114 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1240EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>d a AM-BRF-FeudingCousins     07-19 0127</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-BRF-Feuding Cousins,0131</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Mayor, Kin Tangle Over Melons</HEAD>
<DATELINE>ALEXANDRIA, La. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Woodworth mayor and his second cousin
are back in court, fighting this time over the cousin allegedly
selling watermelons without a license.
   Mayor David Butler brought Charlie Butler into state district
court Monday over a roadside watermelon stand Charlie Butler set up
without paying an occupational tax to the village.
   Charlie Butler's lawyer suggested the ordinance was illegal.
   Ninth Judicial District Judge Richard Lee took the matter under
advisement.
   The Butlers first appeared in court several months ago when
Charlie Butler was accused of driving Woodworth's fire truck
without authorization.
   Rapides Parish prosecutors agreed not to prosecute after Charlie
Butler signed an agreement that he would not operate the fire truck
without permission.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0115 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1241EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>d a AM-BRF--SlowSwimmer     07-19 0183</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-BRF--Slow Swimmer,0187</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Robbery Suspect Plucked from Lake</HEAD>
<DATELINE>KEEGO HARBOR, Mich. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A robbery suspect who tried to flee
by swimming across Crescent Lake had to be rescued by employees of
the restaurant he allegedly held up.
   Police recovered $350 in soggy bills on Sunday.
   Larry W. Quick, 25, of Hamlet, N.C., was arraigned Monday on a
robbery charge. He was in the Oakland County jail Tuesday in lieu
of $50,000 bond. A preliminary examination was scheduled July 28.
   ``I was in the office counting the money when the cook ran into
the office and said we had been robbed,'' Village Place manager Tim
Bedard said.
   He and David Gorecki chased the man, who jumped into the lake.
He got about 200 yards from shore before the two men, who also
jumped in, caught up with him and ordered him back to shore. About
halfway back, the suspect began to flounder.
   Gorecki and Bedard each grabbed an arm and pulled him the rest
of the way and into the custody of a Waterford Township police
officer, police spokesman John McLain said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0116 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1241EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>d a PM-BRF--Drought-Sandbar     07-19 0164</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-BRF--Drought-Sandbar,0170</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Searchers Look For Deputy's Friend, Sons Lost in River</HEAD>
<DATELINE>RIPLEY, Tenn. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Three children and a man thrown into the
Mississippi River when a sandbar collapsed were swept away despite
desperate rescue efforts by the father of two of the children,
officials said today.
   Sheriff's investigator Lyndell Gould Jr. was hospitalized for
shock after trying repeatedly to rescue the victims Monday,
sheriff's deputy Bill Danley said.
   ``He stayed there as long as he could hold out to rescue them.
He went into the water several times trying to get them out,''
Danley said.
   Sheriff's deputies said the group had been riding three-wheel
all-terrain vehicles on the sandbar. The sheriff's department did
not have the full names of the children or their ages.
   Authorities have warned the public that drought has made the
sandbars dangerous.
   ``When the river falls it makes sandbars accessible to people,
and they're sometimes undermined by the current underneath,'' said
U.S. Coast Guard Petty Officer Garland McDowell.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0117 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1230EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-BankFire 1stLd-Writethru a0552 07-19 0454</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Bank Fire, 1st Ld - Writethru, a0552,0460</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Firefighters Say First Interstate Blaze Helped Battle Latest Fire</HEAD>
<NOTE>EDS: Leads with 3 grafs on cause, damage estimate, picks up graf
2, ``Two of the''</NOTE>
<HEAD>LaserPhoto LA1</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By BARBARA METZLER</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>LOS ANGELES (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A fire that damaged two floors of a 38-story
downtown bank tower was caused by vapors from a furniture
refinishing project, officials said today.
   The blaze started Monday night on the 34th floor of the Union
Bank tower and spread to the 35th, said Fire Department spokesman
Jim Wells. He estimated the damage at $350,000. It forced the
evacuation of two dozen workers but was quickly extinguished.
   ``It was accidental,'' said Wells. ``Chemical vapors made
contact with an electrical outlet,'' causing a flash fire.
   Two of the 150 firefighters who responded Monday night were
treated by paramedics at the scene for exhaustion and heat
exposure, but there were no other injuries.
   Firefighters responding to the Union Bank fire used lessons
learned in a May 4 high-rise fire, which killed one person and
injured 40 people as it tore through five floors of the 62-story
First Interstate Bank tower.
   Firefighters used advanced communications gear and left
equipment at two staging areas inside the building instead of the
one used during the previous blaze.
   They also lugged hoses and other equipment weighing as much as
100 pounds per person up the 34 flights of stairs until it was
determined the elevators could be used safely, said fire Battalion
Chief Bob DeFeo.
   The fire, extinquished in 43 minutes, was contained to a pair of
office suites on both the 34th and 35th floors, he said. Smoke
damage in other areas of the floors was minor, said fire Inspector
Ed Reed.
   The cause of the fire was undetermined, and officials said they
had not determined the dollar value of the damage.
   Michael Turner was doing legal research on the 35th floor of the
building when the fire alarm went off Monday night. He said he
immediately alerted a co-worker.
   ``We looked out one of the windows and saw flames coming up, and
we got the heck out of there,'' he said.
   ``I was jumping three steps at a time,'' said Bradley Franks,
who was among about 20 asbestos removal workers on the 28th floor
when he heard an evacuation call on an intercom. ``A few people
were following and some stumbled and fell. I was on the 16th floor
when I saw firefighters coming up the stairs.''
   Like the First Interstate Bank tower, the Union Bank tower was
not equipped with sprinklers, officials said, although they were
being installed. Both buildings were built before a 1974 city
ordinance required sprinklers in high-rises.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0118 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1230EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-NavajoTrial 1stLd-Writethru a0561 07-19 0356</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Navajo Trial, 1st Ld - Writethru, a0561,0359</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Prosecution, Defense Offer Opening Statements in Navajo Murder
Trial</HEAD>
<NOTE>EDS: SUBS third graf to CORRECT that Atenes are half-brothers, not
cousins</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By PAUL ERTELT</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>SALT LAKE CITY (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Investigators have yet to solve the
slayings of two Navajo policemen who were shot, doused in gasoline
and set on fire, a defense attorney argued as the federal trial of
four tribesmen opened.
   ``If you think it's all going to be tidied up and you're going
to know what went on _ you're not, because they arrested the wrong
men,'' Walter Bugden, attorney for Marques Atene, said in his
opening statement Monday.
   Atene, 22; his half-brother Ben Atene Jr., 24; Vinton Bedoni,
31; and Thomas Cly, 22, are charged with first-degree murder in the
deaths of officers Andy Begay and Roy Lee Stanley, whose charred
bodies were found Dec. 5 in a burned-out police truck in a remote
canyon in southern Utah.
   In his opening statement, Assistant U.S. Attorney Stewart C.
Walz said the killings occurred after the officers arrived the
night of Dec. 4 at a party and bonfire near Gouldings following a
high school basketball game.
   A month earlier, Stanley arrested Cly, who threatened him in
front of a witness, Walz said.
   Walz said the two officers were beaten and shot in the back,
then were taken in their police trucks to Copper Canyon southeast
of Lake Powell. They were placed in one of the trucks, which was
doused with gasoline and set on fire.
   Walz said prosecution witnesses would testify that Cly and
Bedoni got into a fight with Stanley at the party, subdued him and
took him behind his truck, where he was shot.
   Walz said Bedoni was seen after that shooting with a gun hin his
hand, and was seen pointing a gun at Begay, who had been summoned
to the scene.
   All four defense attorneys maintained their clients were not at
the crime scene, and said prosecution witnesses' reliability would
be an issue.
   The trial is being held in federal court because the killing
occurred on an Indian reservation.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0119 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1230EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-BRF--CultCandidate     07-19 0176</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-BRF--Cult Candidate,0178</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Venezuelan Cult Priest Runs For President</HEAD>
<DATELINE>CARACAS, Venezuela (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A witch doctor from an indigenous
religious cult announced his candidacy for Venezuela's presidential
election by proclaiming himself the envoy of a local goddess.
   Romulo Abreu Duarte, 52, used drums, the chanting of spells and
two altars to Indian goddess Maria Lionza when he presented himself
Monday to election officials as a candidate of the Venezuelan
Orienting Spiritual Force.
   ``This is a 100 percent spiritual vote and the only one capable
of breaking up the two-party system in the queen Maria Lionza. I am
her envoy so that this mission is fulfilled,'' said Abreu.
   The witch doctor, clad in a business suit and a manatee-tooth
necklace, told reporters, supporters and onlookers that his
decision to run in the December presidential election began with a
revelation that came in a dream.
   The Maria Lionza cult is a mixture of nature-worship, witchcraft
and Catholicism which has thousands of followers in Venezuela who
look toward the legendary Indian chief's daughter for help in
solving problems.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0120 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1232EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-BRF--China-Holdup     07-19 0178</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-BRF--China-Holdup,0183</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Peasant With Grenades Dies Trying To Rob Bank</HEAD>
<DATELINE>BEIJING (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A peasant armed with grenades and dynamite tried
to hold up a bank but a cashier and a customer threw the grenades
back, fatally wounding him, an official report said Tuesday.
   The People's Daily said Zhang Yongsheng walked into a branch of
the China Agriculture Bank in central China's Henan province July 8
carrying three grenades and seven sticks of dynamite.
   A cashier, Jing Chunling, and a customer, Wang Aixia, pushed him
back out the door, the paper said.
   Zhang then pulled the pin out of one grenade and threw it into
the bank. Ms. Jing threw it back outside, where it exploded, the
report said.
   When Zhang threw the two other grenades inside, Wang threw one
back and kicked the other into an adjoining room. Zhang was fatally
wounded by one explosion, dying half an hour later.
   Wang, Ms. Jing and a second cashier were wounded when the third
grenade exploded inside the bank, but the paper said they were out
of danger.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0121 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1233EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-Peru-Strike     07-19 0427</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Peru-Strike,0442</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>National Strike Against Price Increases; Railroad Tracks Blown Up</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By ROBERT SEAVEY</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>LIMA, Peru (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Protesters bombed railroad tracks and halted a
train carrying 1,200 workers to jobs today, Lima police said, as a
communist-led labor federation began a two-day national strike
against government economic policy.
   Strikers in the capital blocked key highways with burning
garbage and leftist guerrillas sparked a blackout in the highlands,
but there were no early reports of violent clashes between police
and strikers, officials said.
   Police said a train carrying workers to their jobs in Lima from
Chosica, 25 miles to the east, was halted midway when saboteurs
blew up a small section of track. The train stopped before reaching
the damaged track and there were no injuries.
   The 48-hour strike was called by the General Confederation of
Peruvian Workers to protest government-approved increases of
between 20 and 100 percent for food prices. They also protested
rising inflation, expected to hit 400 percent this year.
   The organization, which claims more than 1.5 million members,
said two-thirds of the nation's seven million workers were joining
the two-day walkout.
   The strike, the third against President Alan Garcia, was
declared illegal by the government. Dozens of armed police were
deployed on transit buses to ensure that workers reach their jobs.
   Traffic in Lima flowed smoothly but was lighter than normal with
fewer buses on the streets.
   A spokesman at the capital's international airport said flights
were normal.
   Maoist guerrillas blew up power pylons and caused a blackout in
Ayacucho, 225 miles southeast of Lima, as the strike there
paralyzed most business activity, police said.
   Radio Programas, Peru's leading news station, reported the
strike slowed commercial activity in the provincial capitals of
Huancayo, Arequipa, Puno and Cuzco.
   There were no serious reports of violence in Lima early today,
but reporters said police fired tear gas to drive off small pockets
of protesters who attempted to block key arteries into the capital
with burning garbage.
   The nation's largest mine workers federation began an indefinite
strike Monday, which has slowed or halted most mine operations
across the country, strike officials said.
   It was still unclear in the capital today how effective the
strike was in closing factories and halting economic activity.
   On Monday, police said leftist guerrillas exploded a car bomb in
front of the military's joint command headquarters in Lima,
wounding three people.
   Police said a student protester was shot dead during a
demonstration at Lima's San Marcos University medical school Monday
but circumstances surrounding the death were unclear.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0122 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1235EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-VincennesLetter 1stLd-Writethru a0429 07-19 0340</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Vincennes Letter, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0429,0346</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>570-Foot Letter On Way To USS Vincennes</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds; SUBS graf 4, ``The letter xxx, to CORRECT that Vincennes has
remained in Gulf, but has not been `on patrol' since shootdown; and
fixes spelling of commercial</NOTE>
<DATELINE>SAN DIEGO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A 570-foot-long letter of support signed by
nearly 10,000 citizens is on its way to the USS Vincennes, the Navy
cruiser that downed an Iranian airliner.
   The letter is nearly long enough to wrap around the Vincennes,
according to a statement issued by U.S. Rep. Bill Lowery, R-Calif.,
who organized the signature drive.
   Among those signing the letter was former Marine Lt. Col. Oliver
North, one of the principals charged in the Iran-Contra scandal.
   The letter was put aboard a commercial airliner Monday and is
expected to arrive Wednesday in Bahrain for delivery to the crew
and officers aboard the San Diego-based ship, which has remained in
the Persian Gulf since Iran Air Airbus A300 was shot down.
   All 290 aboard were killed in the July 3 accident, which U.S.
officials said was a case of mistaken identity.
   The letter was hand painted on a poster approximately
12-feet-square. The signatures, many accompanied by personal
messages, were scribbled on rolls of 3-foot-wide butcher paper.
   The letter said:
   ``To Capt. Will Rogers III and the crew of the USS Vincennes,
the citizens of our home port San Diego show our strong support to
you as you strive to do your duty to God and country in troubled
waters far from home. You have our best wishes during a difficult
time and we pray for fair winds and following seas in the future.
Good luck and Godspeed.''
   Lowery said the signature campaign was conducted over the
weekend in various spots around San Diego.
   ``I am overwhelmed by the outpouring of support,'' he said. ``In
one weekend almost 10,000 people took the time to stand up and be
counted for the Vincennes.''
   The Vincennes is expected to end its six-month deployment and
return to San Diego in October.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0123 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1235EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-BRF--KoreanAuthors     07-19 0154</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-BRF--Korean Authors,0156</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Publication of Pro-North Korean Writers' Books Permitted</HEAD>
<DATELINE>SEOUL, South Korea (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The government on Tuesday lifted a
decades-old ban on the publication of literary works by about 120
South Korean writers who defected to North Korea during the Korean
War, government officials said.
   Officials at the Culture-Information Ministry said the action
was in line with South Korea's continuing efforts to reconcile with
North Korea and promote contact between the two Koreas.
   The literary works were written before the authors defected, but
South Korea had banned their publication under its anti-North Korea
policy.
   The government action left only five writers on the blacklist,
including Paek In-jun, a former South Korean film scriptwriter who
currently serves as head of North Korea's Literary Arts League, the
officials said.
   In April, the government permitted publication of books by two
prominent South Korean poets who switched loyalty to North Korea
during the 1950-53 war.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0124 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1237EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u w PM-Meese 3rdLd-Writethru a0563 07-19 1468</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Meese, 3rd Ld-Writethru, a0563,1490</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Justice Department Ethics Review of Meese Under Way</HEAD>
<NOTE>EDS: Top 6 grafs new with OPR conducting ethics inquiry of Meese;
picks up 2nd graf pvs, Meese mounted. Note that a0563 should have
been slugged 2nd Ld-Writethru and omitted the OPR material in the
previous lede, a0543.</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By PETE YOST</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A unit in the Justice Department has launched
an ethics inquiry of Attorney General Edwin Meese III, the lobbying
group Common Cause disclosed today, and the 814-page report of
independent counsel James McKay will provide the basis for the
review.
   Common Cause had pressed for the examination on July 6, asking
that the Justice Department's Office of Professional Responsibility
look into whether Meese may have violated a 1965 executive order
spelling out standards of ethical conduct for government employees.
   ``We have initiated an inquiry into your complaint and we will
advise you of the results upon its conclusion,'' OPR counsel
Michael Shaheen said in a one-paragraph letter to Common Cause,
which publicly released copies.
   Common Cause also asked OPR to examine whether Meese violated
provisions of a federal law, the code of ethics for government
service.
   Common Cause filed its request the same day McKay referred his
lengthy report detailing Meese's activities to the Justice
Department, a step that was expected to lead to an inquiry by
Shaheen's office.
   Meanwhile, Meese said ``there's no question I'm vindicated'' of
charges of wrongdoing despite an independent counsel's conclusions
that he probably broke two tax laws and twice violated a
conflict-of-interest law.
   Meese mounted a strong counterattack to the report by
independent counsel James McKay, saying the report's accusations
against him absent criminal action were ``absolutely wrong and it's
absolutely unfair.''
   The attorney general, interviewed on ABC-TV's ``Good Morning
America,'' said McKay found Meese had no criminal intention to
violate the law.
   ``When there's no intent to violate the law, there can be no
violation,'' Meese said. ``Intent is an absolutely critical
ingredient and when that is absent ... then there can't be any
violation of the law.''
   Meese said that when the report is seen together with the
response of his attorneys, ``when you look at all the facts, you
see that in fact I am vindicated. ... There's no question I'm
vindicated.''
   McKay said Monday that ``the toughest calls we made were not to
proceed'' with criminal charges against the attorney general.
   ``It was not a close call to find that there were probable
violations,'' McKay said on the ``MacNeil-Lehrer NewsHour'' public
television program.
   McKay said Meese and his wife, Ursula, probably violated two
sections of the Internal Revenue Code by failing to report and
promptly pay tax on a net capital gain of $20,706 on the sale of
$54,581 in securities in 1985.
   McKay noted that Meese filed an amended return on Feb. 6 of this
year, ``shortly after the scheduling of the grand jury appearances
for the Meeses' accountants'' in connection with McKay's criminal
investigation of the matter.
   The Meeses paid $2,875 in overdue federal tax payments and
interest with the amended return, and, according to McKay,
apparently may owe an additional $600 because of an error made by
his accountants in underestimated capital gains.
   McKay said, ``we had a situation where there's no pattern of
violation of the tax laws'' and that Meese ``in effect, you might
say, is a first offender.''
   Saying he was outraged and appalled by McKay's findings, Meese
said that ``in every matter under investigation by the independent
counsel ... I have always acted legally, ethically and properly,
and any implication by the independent counsel that I have in any
way violated any law is absolutely false.''
   Meese said that if Justice Department lawyers had issued such a
document ``they'd be fired.''
   Washington tax lawyers Cono Namorato and Richard Timbie offered
their opinion, at the request of Meese's lawyers, concluding that
``the ... facts do not describe a violation of any criminal
provision of the Internal Revenue Code.''
   The tax lawyers said Meese candidly disclosed the securities
transactions to his accountant, John McKean, and that he followed
McKean's advice on how to file a return in the absence of the
necessary records needed to compute the original cost of the
securities.
   McKay's report found that Meese probably twice violated the
conflict-of-interest law in connection with his holdings of $15,000
in regional Bell telephone stock.
   McKay said Meese owned the stock in the regional Bell companies
in 1985 and 1986, when he set in motion a review process that led
to a reversal of Justice Department policy. McKay also found that
Meese participated in discussions of proposed legislation to shift
regulatory responsibility for the breakup of AT&T from a federal
court and the Justice Department to the Federal Communications
Commission.
   ``Our conclusion was that although there was a probable
violation, there was no venality involved,'' McKay said. ``Mr.
Meese was not lining his own pocket, so to speak. Had he not
participated in these matters, the decisions of the Department of
Justice probably would have been the same.''
   Meese's lawyers have characterized his meetings with executives
of four regional Bell companies which were seeking a reversal in
Justice Department policy in 1985 and 1986 as courtesy calls, but
McKay disagreed.
   ``The common theme was to protest the restrictions imposed'' on
the companies under the consent decree ``and to advocate that the
Department of Justice improve the situation,'' said the independent
counsel's report. ``The meetings ... cannot be characterized as
non-substantive. At the same time, according to witnesses at the
Department of Justice, nothing of significance resulted from the
meetings.''
   Meese participated in the matters after signing an agreement to
transfer the regional telephone stock to his financial manager, W.
Franklyn Chinn, who is under indictment for alleged racketeering in
the Wedtech Corp. scandal.
   Meese had pledged to the Senate and the Office of Government
Ethics that he would sell the stock in 1985. He said he signed the
transfer agreement because he couldn't find the stock certificates,
reclaimed the stock from Chinn last summer and then sold it.
   Reid Weingarten, a Washington attorney who offered a legal
opinion at the request of Meese's lawyers, said he concluded that
Meese ``believed that he had made a bona fide transfer of the stock
in question to Mr. Chinn'' and that the evidence therefore ``would
not be sufficient to support a ... prosecution.''
   The independent counsel's report also dealt at some length with
Meese's activities on behalf of Wedtech and a $1 billion Iraqi
pipeline project, but concluded there was no evidence that his
actions were for personal gain.
   Sen. Strom Thurmond of South Carolina, ranking Republican on the
Senate Judiciary Committee, said McKay's report indicates ``the
attorney general did not exercise good judgment in a number of
instances. The attorney general has announced his pending
resignation and I hope ... this report finally puts this matter to
rest.''
   Sen. Carl Levin, D-Mich., chairman of a Senate subcommittee that
investigated Meese's involvement in the Wedtech scandal, said of
the McKay report: ``The findings I believe are devastating to Mr.
Meese, to his claim that he has been ethical. How anyone other than
Ed Meese could claim that this report vindicates him is beyond me.''
   McKay said his investigation had cost some $1.7 million as of
the end of June. Meese said he intends to seek reimbursement of his
legal costs from the taxpayers, which, since he has not been
indicted, he is entitled to do under the 1978 Ethics in Government
Act. Those legal costs are expected to exceed $250,000, based on
estimates on Meese's newly issued financial disclosure form for
1987.
   McKay's investigation has been completed, but is not necessarily
closed permanently.
   Last December, McKay said it was possible an investigation of
Meese might be revived in connection with the Wedtech matter,
depending on the outcome of the prosecution of longtime Meese
confidant E. Robert Wallach as well as Chinn and former Wedtech
consultant R. Kent London. All three are under indictment in the
Wedtech scandal and invoked their Fifth Amendment right against
self-incrimination in McKay's probe.
   Two defense attorneys in the McKay probe referred to the
possibility the investigation could be revived in connection with
another matter, the $40,000-a-year job for Meese's wife, Ursula.
   McKay said he found serious conflicts in the testimony of key
witnesses concerning the extent of Wallach's involvement in the
effort to persuade the Bender Foundation to underwrite a job for
Mrs. Meese, and lawyers for the foundation urged that the report
therefore not be made public.
   ``It appears that no final conclusions with respect to'' that
matter ``will be made public until such time as E. Robert Wallach
becomes available as a witness,'' said the brief by Washington
lawyers Seymour Glanzer and Justice Simon, representing the Bender
Foundation.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0125 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1238EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u p PM-CVN--Wright-Convention 1stLd-Writethru a0491 07-19 0670</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-CVN--Wright-Convention, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0491,700</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Wright Says Public Ignores Allegations Against Him</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Subs 2nd grafs with 2 new grafs to include GOP comment today</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By JIM DRINKARD</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   House Speaker Jim Wright believes his ethics
problems are fading into the background as he takes the gavel at
the Democratic National Convention, but Republicans are continuing
to pester him about the issue.
   A conservative Washington-based GOP group, Citizens for Reagan,
filed a new complaint with the Federal Election Commission as the
convention began, and a Republican ``truth squad'' hit Wright at a
news conference in the convention city.
   ``I think it's devastating to have Jim Wright on the platform,''
said Rep. Don Sundquist, R-Tenn. ``I think that if they had any way
to get him off the platform without embarrassing him, they would.''
   But Wright offered a spirited self-defense in an interview
Monday.
   ``So what?'' says Wright. ``I think that's basically the
attitude of the public.''
   Wright was formally installed as convention chairman Monday
night and is scheduled to deliver a 10-minute speech tonight that
will boast of Congress' accomplishments this year under his
leadership.
   As he wielded the chairman's gavel, Wright seemed as at ease as
if he were in his home perch, presiding over the House of
Representatives. After one interlude when delegates danced to a
rock 'n' roll tune, he encouraged the audience in The Omni arena:
``We're going to look good on television tonight.''
   The mood seemed far away from some Democrats' pre-convention
worries that Wright's problems might taint the proceedings and
tarnish the image the party is trying to project in its bid to
regain the White House.
   Rep. Tom DeLay, R-Texas, a member of the GOP hit team, said the
silence on the conflict-of-interest allegations against Wright did
not mean the issue had evaporated. He said Republicans would rather
focus on their charges that Democrats are trying to hide from their
liberal records.
   ``That message has overshadowed Jim Wright's problems,'' DeLay
said. He hinted that harsh criticism of outgoing Attorney General
Edwin Meese III in an independent counsel's report Monday may also
have blunted the issue.
   ``There's enough sleaze to go around, and I think everybody's
trying to stay away from that,'' DeLay said in an interview.
   Vice President George Bush, the GOP presidential candidate, has
used Wright's problems as a theme in campaign speeches but has
eased the attacks since Meese announced plans to resign.
   ``I'd say before it's all over there will be a few more shots
taken at Jim Wright,'' said Lee Atwater, Bush's spokesman. Easing
the attacks ``doesn't mean he's out of our crosshairs.''
   Wright said the Citizens for Reagan effort to revive the ethics
issue would backfire. The group's complaint filed Monday with the
FEC charged that Wright used a book he wrote as a way to circumvent
limits on campaign contributions.
   ``It is an absolutely baseless, politically motivated effort,''
Wright said. ``The obvious repetition of the very same baseless
things reveals the bankruptcy of their claims.''
   He said the complaint was obviously timed to embarrass him at
the convention.
   Wright said he had not shied away from the convention podium
because of the criticism. ``Nobody likes for people to be saying
unkind things about him,'' he said. ``But the only way around it is
right straight through it. I will be stronger because of it.''
   The House ethics committee has been probing charges that Wright
made unduly large royalties on his book, ``Reflections of a Public
Man.'' The book was printed by a longtime campaign contractor for
the speaker and edited by a member of Wright's congressional staff.
   Also under investigation are charges that Wright improperly
intervened with federal regulators on behalf of Texas businesses.
   Wright's attorney, William Oldaker, said he believes the panel
will appoint an independent counsel soon and complete its
investigation relatively quickly. ``At most, they have half a dozen
people to talk to. A trip to Fort Worth (where the book was
published) would do it,'' Oldaker said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0126 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1239EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i AM-Mandela Bjt   07-19 0557</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Mandela, Bjt,0578</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Government Has Its Way On Mandela's Birthday</HEAD>
<HEAD>AP News Analysis</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By GREG MYRE</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   South Africa was quiet on
Nelson Mandela's 70th birthday, showing once again the government's
ability to defuse potentially explosive events and its refusal to
bow to world opinion.
   Dozens of governments _ including the United States _ appealed
for Mandela's release. Thousands of people held rallies in world
capitals to mark the birthday Monday of the African National
Congress leader who has been imprisoned since 1962.
   In South Africa even the pro-government, Afrikaans-language
newspaper Beeld said it now would be better to free Mandela rather
than further enhance his stature as a martyr.
   But the government responded in its customarily blunt fashion:
no birthday celebrations and no freedom for Mandela until he
renounces violence.
   Mandela's birthday passed in South Africa without a major public
celebration or an outburst of violence.
   ``This day turned into what the government wanted to be made of
it,'' the leader's wife, Winnie Mandela, said Monday.
   The government banned all celebrations, including concerts,
festivals, sports events and even a private tea party. More than 30
people involved in organizing the events were detained.
   The Southern African Catholic Bishops' Conference said
government authorities ``were making themselves look quite
ridiculous.''
   But Minister of Information Stoffel van der Merwe said Monday on
national television, ``No matter how much international pressure is
brought upon us ... we must do what is right from our own
perspective.''
   Van der Merwe said that ``as far as the government is concerned,
(Mandela's) punishment has already been met.'' But he added that
political and security considerations keep the black leader in
prison.
   ``His imprisonment serves to ensure that this type of (political
unrest) does not recur in the society,'' Van der Merwe said.
   Mrs. Mandela said it was unlikely her husband would be released
soon.
   ``There appears to be no climate in the country for the release
of Mandela,'' she said. ``There does not seem to be anything on the
cards for the next few years.''
   Mrs. Mandela said she was disappointed with the bans placed on
the events planned for her husband's birthday. But she said it was
wrong to interpret the day as evidence of the government's ability
to stifle black resistance.
   ``We wanted this to be a peaceful day,'' she said. ``It's our
own way of focusing on the crimes of apartheid.''
   Mandela was jailed in 1962 for inciting unrest and fleeing from
the country. While serving a five-year term, he was sentenced to
life imprisonment in 1964 for sabotage and plotting the overthrow
of the government.
   The government maintains that Mandela must renounce supporting
violence before he is freed. He has said he will do so only if the
government lifts its ban of the ANC and dismantles its policy of
apartheid.
   An estimated 30,000 people have been detained without charge for
varying periods of time since the government imposed a nationwide
state of emergency in June 1986. All leading anti-apartheid
organizations have been banned, including the ANC, which is the
main guerrilla group fighting the government.
   Since the government silenced 17 leading anti-apartheid groups
in February it has not tolerated even relatively minor
demonstrations.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>EDITOR'S NOTE </NOTE>
<TEXT>
   Greg Myre, a correspondent based in
Johannesburg, has covered southern Africa since 1987.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0127 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1246EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>d a AM-BRF--BitterCourse     07-19 0164</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-BRF--Bitter Course,0168</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Endangered Plant Halts Golf Course Development</HEAD>
<DATELINE>HOUSTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The presence of the endangered Texas bitterweed
has left a bitter taste in the mouths of officials whose plans for
a golf course were halted by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
   Harris County's application to build the course on Corps land
was refused because of the need to protect the plant, formally
called Hmenoxys texana.
   The Corps action prompted efforts by County Commissioner
Elizabeth Ghrist to nullify a concession contract for the proposed
golf course and free up $750,000 in funds.
   Officials hope to look for a new golf course site, but that
could be delayed until at least next year, said Molly Pryor, an
aide to Ms. Ghrist.
   ``You can't pick out another location until February, when it
(bitterweed) blooms and you can find it,'' Ms. Pryor said. ``Isn't
that incredible?''
   The Corps has promised to help the county find another spot on
its land for the golf course.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0128 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1248EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u p PM-CVN--Bentsen 2ndLd-Writethru a0562 07-19 0728</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-CVN--Bentsen, 2nd Ld-Writethru, a0562,760</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Bentsen Touts Civil Rights Record</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Updates in top 7 grafs with Bentsen comments, picking up 2nd
graf pvs, ``I can; deleting grafs 8-9 pvs, Bentsen a; trims at end.</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By EILEEN PUTMAN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Sen. Lloyd Bentsen, seen by some as a
conservative counterpoint to Michael Dukakis, played up his civil
rights record today, saying ``no one can doubt'' his commitment to
that cause.
   On a day that began with a salute to the civil rights movement,
Bentsen praised Jesse Jackson, saying he ``has acted more on his
own for the cause of freedom and justice, more than the Reagan
administration has been able to achieve in the last eight years.''
   Bentsen continued to brush aside any differences between him and
the Democratic presidential nominee-to-be, stressing their common
views on such issues as civil rights.
   ``No one can doubt Michael Dukakis' commitment to civil rights;
no one can doubt my commitment,'' Bentsen told a civil rights
breakfast hosted by House Speaker Jim Wright.
   Later, he told Texas delegates that the convention is showing
unprecedented Democratic Party unity.
   ``As I visited with Jesse Jackson this morning, as I talked to
Mike Dukakis time and time again yesterday and I listened to
(keynote speaker) Ann Richards last night, I have never, never seen
this Democratic Party more united than it is now,'' Bentsen said.
   In a series of television interviews earlier today, Bentsen
emphasized his civil rights credentials.
   ``I can say I've been fighting for civil rights as far back as
the `40s,'' Bentsen said on NBC-TV. ``I'm no latecomer to that
process. ... I wouldn't be sitting here today as Michael Dukakis'
running mate if I didn't have a civil rights record.''
   The Texas senator's record on some issues is at odds with stands
now advocated by Dukakis, including aid to insurgents in Nicaragua
and support for the tax cuts advanced by President Reagan in 1981.
On ABC-TV, Bentsen acknowledged differences but added, ``There are
a lot more similarities than you have in the way of differences.''
   On the major theme of the Democratic campaign, he said, he and
Dukakis are together. ``We are talking about economic growth, jobs,
education, health care, housing.''
   Bentsen spent a good part of Monday wooing delegates who don't
know him or his record. Some found their fears about him
evaporating.
   ``He doesn't frighten me,'' said Harry Meshel, minority leader
of the Ohio Senate. ``You don't expect him to be a loose cannon.
That's the kind of thing you're looking for: stability.''
   ``He's smooth, like pouring honey, and I mean that in a
complimentary way. If he walked on water, he wouldn't stir it,''
said Richard Daschbach, a New Hampshire legislator.
   Some delegates made no secret of their disappointment in
Dukakis' choice for a running mate. Jackson supporters threatened
to challenge Bentsen, but such talk may have been muted by the
outcome of Monday's Dukakis-Jackson meeting, which ended with
pledges of unity.
   Aides say Bentsen did not take part in the talks between Dukakis
and Jackson, although he did have two candid telephone
conversations with Jackson last week that aides say enabled Jackson
and Bentsen to establish a good rapport. Jackson told Bentsen after
one call that ``you understand grits talk,'' said Bentsen spokesman
Jack Devore.
   Bentsen arrived in time fr the trio to hold a press conference
Monday. Afterward, he told a meeting of Ohio delegates ``I just
left a meeting with Gov. Dukakis and Jesse Jackson and we have put
it all together.''
   He was well received by the Ohio crowd, despite their hopes that
Ohio Sen. John Glenn would get the nod for the ticket's No. 2 spot.
   Meshel, the Ohio Senate leader, called the choice ``very
practical.''
   ``When you analyzed the political landscape, it seemed more
important to have Bentsen in terms of winning Texas than it was to
have Glenn ... because I think we're strong in Ohio and the
Midwest,'' said Meshel.
   At the New Jersey delegation, Bentsen was greeted by an ovation
but also some Jackson placards. The Jackson supporters said later
they were still committed to their candidate, but that Bentsen
should not take it personally.
   Wayne Bryant, a New Jersey assemblyman from Camden, said he
remained concerned about what role Jackson will have in the
campaign, but called Bentsen's civil rights record ``very
distinguished.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0129 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1248EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-SpaghettiHoldup     07-19 0194</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Spaghetti Holdup,0200</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>A Pasta Pasting</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   ELMSFORD, N.Y. (AP ) _ A man foiled a holdup at a service
station by tossing a plate of spaghetti at a would-be robber,
police said Tuesday.
   The man was shot by the bandits and was hospitalized in stable
condition.ervice station attendant was not hurt.
   Witnesses said Mann sat at the diner counter with napkins and
coffee filters pressed against his side to contain the bleeding
until the ambulance arrived. Mann, who was staying with friends in
Elmsford, was taken to Westchester County Medical Center in
Valhalla.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0130 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1251EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i PM-UN-Iran-Iraq 6thLd-Writethru a0602 07-19 0891</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-UN-Iran-Iraq, 6th Ld-Writethru, a0602,0916</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>UN Secretary-General Begins Peace Talks, Predicts War's End</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: SUBS 3rd graf ``The conflict...'' with one graf to CORRECT
that the war has killed or wounded 1 million, sted killed. Pickup
4th graf pvs ``Iran said...''; SUBS 9th graf ``Perez de Cuellar
said...'' with 2 grafs to UPDATE with comment from his spokesman on
latest fighting. Pickup 10th graf pvs ```If I'm...'''</NOTE>
<HEAD>LaserPhoto NY5</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By PETER JAMES SPIELMANN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>UNITED NATIONS (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Iran-Iraq war could be halted within a
week, Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar predicted after
Iran accepted a U.N. cease-fire plan. But the belligerents were
fighting again today.
   Iraqi warplanes attacked a nuclear plant and other Iranian
industrial targets today, Iran said a day after reversing itself in
announcing it would accept a year-old U.N. resolution calling for a
truce in the 8-year-old war.
   The conflict has killed or wounded an estimated 1 million people.
   Iran said it shot down three Iraqi jet fighters today and Iraq
said it downed two Iranian warplane. But both sides claimed their
planes all returned safely to base.
   Iran's official Islamic Republic News Agency also said Iraqi air
raids near the city of Ahvaz in Khuzestan province killed and
injured an unspecified number of people and inflicted some damage.
   Iraq, which already has accepted terms of the resolution, on
Monday expressed skepticism about its rival's abrupt about-face.
   Baghdad said the reversal may have been prompted by ``tactical
reasons'' _ Iran's recent battlefield defeats _ rather than by a
desire for peace. Iran's economy has also suffered deeply.
   World leaders generally praised Iran's announcement and
expressed hope it would lead to an end to the conflict that has
endangered commercial shipping in the gulf's busy waters and
heightened the U.S. military presence in the region.
   In light of today's fighting, Perez de Cuellar spokesman
Francois Giuliani said the U.N. leader ``considers the continuation
of hostilities in the area a clear sign that the cease-fire should
come into place as soon as possible, and he is extremely anxious
that this should be the case.''
   Perez de Cuellar told a news conference Monday he would assemble
a 10-member team and another force of at least 250 U.N. military
observers to monitor a prospective truce.
   ``If I'm lucky, I may have a cease-fire in a week to 10 days,''
he said.
   The Peruvian said he also would dispatch U.N. teams to both
countries at the end of the week to work on an early prisoner
exchange.
   Perez de Cuellar, whose peace mission to both countries in
September ended in failure, said acceptance of the resolution by
both combatants is a breakthrough.
   ``The resolution is a peace plan,'' he said, ``and it covers all
aspects. If it is fully implemented, I think it means an end of the
conflict.''
   The Tehran government, battered by a string of recent military
defeats and seeking a Security Council call for the withdrawal of
the U.S. Navy from the gulf, said Monday it would accept the truce
resolution without condition.
   The Security Council's scheduled meeting this morning was called
off and no explanation was immediately forthcoming. However, the
members of the council held private talks late Monday and early
today.
   The council was to hold private consultations this afternoon on
Iran's acceptance of the U.N. cease-fire plan. It was also
scheduled to discuss a U.S. warship's downing July 3 of an Iranian
airliner, which killed 290 people.
   Iran contends the U.S. Navy's presence in the gulf made the
disaster inevitable, but has been unable to collect enough votes to
condemn Washington.
   U.S. officials say the plane was shot down in self-defense
because the crew of the USS Vincennes thought the A300 Airbus was
an Iranian jet fighter.
   During debate last week, the United States, Soviet Union,
Britain, France, China and others all told Iran that its failure to
accept the cease-fire resolution caused the hostile atmosphere that
led to the jetliner disaster.
   Security Council Resolution 598, which was adopted July 20,
1987, demands an immediate cease-fire in the war, a troop
withdrawal, a prisoner exchange and the creation of a comprehensive
peace plan.
   It also calls for formation of an impartial commission to
determine responsibility for the conflict. Iraq invaded Iran in
September 1980 after several border skirmishes.
   Perez de Cuellar met separately Monday with Iranian Ambassador
Mohammad Ja'afar Mahallati and Iraqi Ambassador Ismat T. Kittani.
There was no word on the results of the talks.
   President Ali Khamenei of Iran, in his letter to Perez de
Cuellar accepting the resolution, cited the airliner downing and
said the gulf war is ``engulfing innocent civilians.
   ``In this context, we have decided to officially declare that
the Islamic Republic of Iran _ because of the importance it
attaches to saving the lives of human beings and the establishment
of justice and regional and international peace and security _
accepts the (U.N. resolution),'' it said.
   Despite accepting the resolution, Iran's military command said
its troops would remain at the front.
   Hashemi Rafsanjani, Iranian parliament speaker who was promoted
to military commander-in-chief by Iranian leader Ayatollah Ruhollah
Khomeini last month, said in an interview on Iranian television
Monday that Khomeini had decided to accept the truce.
   Iran had been saying that it would not accept the resolution
unless Iraq were branded the aggressor in the war.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0131 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1251EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i AM-Gulf-Israel Bjt   07-19 0732</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Gulf-Israel, Bjt,0754</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>End Of Iran-Iraq War Would Be Bad News For Israel</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By NICOLAS B. TATRO</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>JERUSALEM (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The world may celebrate the end of the
Iran-Iraq war, but Israel will not.
   Prominent Israelis say the 8-year-old war nearly eliminated the
possibility of united Arab military action against Israel, but
peace in the Persian Gulf could make Iraq's huge military machine
available for such a campaign.
   ``The moment this army becomes free there's a fear of war,''
Maj. Gen. Yehoshua Saguy, a former head of military intelligence,
said Tuesday on Israel radio.
   Brig. Gen. Aharon Levran said in an interview: ``As long as the
gulf war was raging, Israel could rest assured that the chances for
a war here were almost nil. This security bonaza which Israel
enjoyed up to now is probably coming to an end.'' Levran, retired
from the military, is an analyst at the Jaffee Center for Strategic
Studies in Tel Aviv.
   Statements of government leaders have been cautious, but often
laced with suspicion.
   Defense Minister Yitzhak Rabin said on Israel Television he did
not believe Iraq or Iran was eager for a new war ``in the immediate
future.''
   Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir, head of the right-wing Likud
faction of the coalition government, told reporters: ``We must be
very cautious from this moment.''
   Foreign Minister Shimon Peres, leader of the center-left Labor
Party and Shamir's political rival, declared: ``Iraq has built a
very large army with over 50 divisions, with an air force... The
question is whether it will turn to rehabilitating its country or
be tempted to recapture its standing in the Arab world (by
attacking Israel).''
   The daily newspaper Hadashot said Israeli generals plan meetings
this week to assess the possibility of Iraq or Iran turning its
military forces against Israel.
   It quoted unidentified Foreign Ministry sources as suggesting
official concern that Iran might increase support for Hezbollah,
its guerrilla ally in Lebanon, and encourage attacks on northern
Israel.
   Largely because two hostile regional powers were fighting each
other, Israel has been able to reduce annual military spending by
$600 million in the past three years.
   Iraq moved closer to moderate Jordan and Egypt during the war
and sent word through diplomatic channels that it would abandon
opposition to a negotiated settlement of the Arab-Israeli conflict.
   Analysts in Israel feel peace could change all that.
   Iraq's peaceful intentions are considered suspect because of its
history of sending troops to fight in past Arab-Israeli wars,
including three of its seven army divisions in 1973.
   ``I don't remember positive statements,'' Saguy said. ``I
remember all through the years that Iraq was a country which never
signed a cease-fire with Israel, and Iraq took part in all the wars
so far.''
   Expensive new defenses may be needed to counter the threat of
chemical weapons and long-range missiles widely used in the
Iran-Iraq war.
   Israel and the United States are considering a $1.3 billion
program to develop the Arrow, a missile designed to bring down
incoming rockets carrying chemical or conventional warheads.
   Zeev Schiff, a leading military commentator writing in the daily
Haaretz, criticized Israeli leaders for not taking advantage of
Iraq's new moderation.
   ``Iraq was ready for approaches on Israel's part,'' he wrote.
``Egypt was willing to act as a bridesmaid. Due to one excuse or
another most of the Israeli leadership totally rejected this
possibility.''
   Some observers feel Israel also missed a chance to develop a
diplomatic initiative with moderate Jordan while much of the Arab
world was preoccupied with the Persian Gulf war. Instead, Israel
sold weapons to Iran.
   Although the extent of the dealing is unknown, the sales
reflected the predominant Israeli view that non-Arab Iran posed
less of a threat than Iraq, a traditional enemy.
   ``We had an interest in selling for economic reasons and because
we were worried about the fate of 30,000 Jews still living in Iran,
not to mention Iraq being an enemy,'' said Yaacov Nimrodi, an
Israeli arms dealer and former Mossad intelligence official.
   Joseph Alpher, acting director of the Jaffee Center, said in an
interview that one beneficial effect of peace in the Persian Gulf
could be a slowing of the Middle East arms race.
   ``Countries like Saudi Arabia that have been seeking missiles
and state-of-the-art combat aircraft will perhaps scale down their
arms purchasing, maybe not tomorrow but after a few years,'' he
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0132 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1251EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-BRF--LaScala     07-19 0119</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-BRF--La Scala,0121</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Milan Theater Unveils New Opera Season</HEAD>
<DATELINE>MILAN, Italy (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The prestigious La Scala theater will open
its new season Dec. 7 with the six-hour opera William Tell,
officials said Tuesday.
   La Scala officials said the season will include five new
productions.
   They said it will be preceded by a Sept. 17-26 tour in which the
company will perform some of the most popular operas of Giuseppe
Verdi and Giacomo Puccini in Seoul, during the Olympic Games, and
in Tokyo.
   The William Tell opera by Gioacchino Rossini will be conducted
by Riccardo Muti. Chris Merritt and Lella Cuberli will be in the
cast. New productions include Verdi's ``Luisa Miller'' and Carl
Maria Von Weber's ``Oberon.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0133 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1255EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-BRF--Britain-OilRig     07-19 0166</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-BRF--Britain-Oil Rig,0170</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Death Toll in Oil Disaster Rises to 167</HEAD>
<DATELINE>ABERDEEN, Scotland (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A French technician who was critically
injured in the world's worst oil rig disaster died in a hospital
Tuesday, raising the death toll from the tragedy to 167.
   Eric Brianchon, 35, suffered burns over 50 percent of his body,
according to Coflexip, his Rouen-based employers. He underwent
skin-graft operations at Royal Aberdeen Infirmary and apparently
died of infection, the company said.
   An explosion rocked the Piper Alpha platform in the North Sea
120 miles off Scotland on July 6, killing 164 oil workers and two
would-be rescuers.
   Two-thirds of the platform sank, trapping many of the victims.
   U.S. lawyers who want to represent the families of the dead
placed an advertisement in the Aberdeen Press and Post on Monday,
claiming that the best courts for pursuing damage claims are the
state courts of Texas, because settlements will be ``substantially
higher.''
   The platform is owned by Los Angeles-based Occidental Petroleum
Corp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0134 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1257EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-GolfingLeave 1stLd-Writethru a0572 07-19 0288</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Golfing Leave, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0572,0292</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Teacher Seeks Sick Leave For Jaunt On Green</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: SUBS 4th graf to include name of school where she worked.</NOTE>
<DATELINE>SAN DIEGO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A public school teacher was only doing what the
doctor ordered when she took a day off and played golf, a review
panel decided in granting her request for sick pay.
   ``We find it unbelievable,'' said school district attorney Jose
Gonzalez, who last week filed a request for a rehearing in Superior
Court.
   The three-member review panel, known as the Commission on
Professional Competence, ruled last month that teacher Ethel H.
Williams could file for sick leave for her June 12, 1987, golf
outing.
   The panel said the outing was ``related to the respondent's
health.'' It found that Williams was under an unusual amount of
job-related stress while working as a special education elementary
school teacher at Walker Elementary School.
   Williams, who has been teaching for 17 years, had been advised
by her physician to take a day off when she was bothered by stress.
Her physician thinks golf ``serves this mental health purpose
well,'' the ruling said.
   The matter went to the panel after school officials received a
tip about the golf outing. Williams denied going until confronted
with her score card.
   The district sought to have her suspended for 10 days for
unprofessional conduct for abusing the sick leave policy and for
denying she had spent the day playing golf.
   ``We didn't feel that going out and playing golf is adequate
medical therapy,'' said George Flanigan, the district's director of
certificated personnel.
   The panel's ruling notes that Williams has been evaluated as ``a
very effective teacher.'' It also says she has a handicap of 12.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0135 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1307EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i PM-Nicaragua 1stld-Writethru a0489 07-19 0715</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Nicaragua, 1st ld-Writethru, a0489,0734</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Sandinistas Mark Ninth Anniversary of Revolution Triumph</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Leads with 6 grafs on Ortega's speech. Picks up x graf pvs
``The anniversary....''</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By BRYNA BRENNAN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>MANAGUA, Nicaragua (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   President Daniel Ortega, speaking at
the ninth anniversary of his leftist government, said today that
Nicaragua has been socialist since 1979.
   ``There were expectations on this July 19 that we were going to
declare outselves socialists,'' the president, wearing a plaid
cowboy shirt, said in the nationally broadcast speech. ``They
haven't understood yet that we are socialists, and there's
socialism in Nicaragua since 1979.''
   It was believed to be the first time that he or any of the
Sandininista leaders described themselves as socialists. Recently
Sandinista leaders have said that the country had a mixed economy
with socialist orientation.
   Ortega spoke to a crowded stadium in the central city of
Juigalpa, 85 miles east of the capital.
   He also urged the United States to renew bilateral talks, last
held in 1984, to normalize relations.
   The president called on the U.S.-backed rebels, known as
Contras, to reopen stalled discussions on a definitive cease-fire.
He also said government troops would extend a truce until Aug. 30.
The current cease-fire was due to expire at the end of this month.
   The anniversary marks the day Sandinista guerrillas arrived
triumphantly in Managua, the capital, after a 1{-year civil war
that ended four decades of dictatorial rule by the Somoza dynasty.
   Troops on Monday conducted searches at roadblocks along the road
to the site of the festivities in Juigalpa, 85 miles east of
Managua. Also, the Interior Ministry banned alcohol sales for 24
hours in Chontales province, where anniversary festivities also are
being held.
   The measures followed three days of military exercises that
ended Sunday. The armed forces, using tanks, helicopters and guns,
joined civilians to act out air strikes and land attacks.
   Also Sunday, thousands of youths attended dances to celebrate
the ``Day of Happiness,'' marking the day in 1979 when President
Anastasio Somoza left the country.
   The celebrations come as a quick and permanent end to the
government's 7-year war with the Contras remains elusive.
   Negotiations broke down in June for a lasting peace to the
conflict that has claimed 26,000 lives. The rebels in recent weeks
have staged almost daily ambushes despite a cease-fire agreement
signed March 23.
   The Defense Ministry said Monday five rebels had been killed in
two attacks on troop positions. The statement said rebels kidnapped
10 civilians Friday and Saturday.
   The government last week expelled U.S. Ambassador Richard Melton
and seven other American diplomats. It accused the U.S. Embassy of
being behind a plan to incite domestic unrest.
   Also last week, courts sentenced to six months in jail three
dozen opposition figures who attended an anti-government
demonstration that police broke up with tear gas and beatings.
   The Sandinistas also shut down the Roman Catholic radio station
and a private news show and suspended the only opposition
newspaper, La Prensa, for 15 days. Citing economic reasons, the
government nationalized the largest private enterprise, the San
Antonio sugar refinery.
   Lawmakers in Washington are discussing resuming military aid to
the Contras, which Congress cut off in February in hopes the
Sandinistas would deliver on promises of democratic reforms.
   The government claims most of Nicaragua's problems center on the
war with the Contras, which it says has caused $3.6 billion in
damage to the economy.
   The threat of renewed fighting means thousands of displaced
people cannot return home in north and central regions. Meanwhile,
the unpopular military draft continues.
   The war has stifled promises of social programs. Scores of
schools and clinics built after 1979 have been destroyed. The
country's more than 3 million people suffer shortages of rice,
beans, water and gasoline.
   Most of the blame has been placed on the United States, which
financed the Contras, cut off economic aid in 1981 and established
a trade embargo in 1985.
   But the Sandinistas express pride in having survived to their
ninth anniversary without the U.S. invasion they have always said
they expect.
   On Monday, a cartoon in the Sandinista newspaper Barricada
depicted a baseball game, the nation's most popular sport, between
the United States and Nicaragua. It showed a score board noting 9-0
and a disheveled Uncle Sam.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0136 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1320EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u a PM-Powell     07-19 0334</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Powell,330</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>For Release 3:30 p.m. EDT</NOTE>
<HEAD>Administration Learned From Iran-Contra, Reagan Adviser Says</HEAD>
<DATELINE>LOS ANGELES (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   President Reagan's national security adviser
said today the administration has improved its relations with
Congress in the aftermath of ``the aberration of Iran-Contra.''
   In an address to the Los Angeles World Affairs Council, however,
Lt. Gen. Colin D. Powell said he hoped that Congress would not be
``tempted to try to limit presidential power.''
   Powell said that ``divided, shared and countervailing powers are
the hallmarks of our system _ by design of the founding fathers.
Weakening the presidency also weakens the country.''
   The national security adviser did not say specifically what
improvements had been brought about in administration dealings with
Congress on foreign affairs issues, nor did he touch on the ongoing
dispute with some lawmakers over Reagan's failure to invoke
provisions of the War Powers Act giving Capitol Hill a say in the
use of U.S. military force in the Persian Gulf.
   Powell did say that the executive branch ``has an obligation to
keep its own house in order. There must be an adherence to law and
to the Constitution, and a willingness to consult and deal openly
and respectfully with the Congress, taking legislative leaders into
its confidence on the most sensitive matters.''
   ``I believe this administration, after the aberration of
Iran-Contra, has re-established and enjoys such a coherent and
cooperative process internally,'' Powell said. ``It has served the
president and the country well.''
   Two White House aides, John M. Poindexter and Oliver L. North,
were ousted in the fall of 1986 as the Iran-Contra affair became
public. It involved the clandestine sales of U.S. arms to Iran and
the subsequent diversion of proceeds to the Nicaraguan rebels.
   Reagan has persistenly maintained that no laws were broken, even
though congressional investigations and hearings produced evidence
that members of Congress were widely deceived by administration
figures.
   North goes on trial Sept. 20 in Washington on an array of
charges related to the arms-to-Iran affair.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0137 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1321EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u a AM-Drought-HighAndDry Bjt   07-19 0742</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Drought-High And Dry, Bjt,0762</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>University Farm Research Left High and Dry in Drought</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By ROBERT DVORCHAK</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP National Writer</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   In Indiana, years of genetic work on new strains of corn and
soybeans withered in the field. In Ohio, crop failure halted
research on stalk rot and other corn diseases. In Georgia, a
parched pasture killed a grazing test and put 67 cows on the
auction block.
   Across drought-scorched sections of the United States,
universities have abandoned or cut back on millions of dollars
worth of experiments aimed at breeding tastier, healthier crops and
beefier cattle.
   ``It not only wipes out the whole year, long-range research may
be ruined, which means we'll have to start over. It may have
effects that carry over for years,'' said William Baumgardt,
director of agricultural research for Purdue University in arid
West Lafayette, Ind.
   However, researchers who study drought hope to learn lessons
which will help during the next dry spell.
   ``We're getting information we wouldn't otherwise get. It
enhances our stress testing,'' said plant physiologist Jerry Easton
of Nebraska University, who is experimenting with genetics and
cross-breeding for drought-resistant sorghum.
   Purdue scientists were breeding disease-resistant soybeans and
hardier corn, but the hot, dry weather destroyed crops and produced
no seeds from the test strains. Baumgardt estimated the loss in the
millions of dollar, plus the time invested in selecting the best
varieties from year to year.
   ``All the progress we've made up to now is being set back two to
five years. Genetic studies are being devastated,'' Baumgardt said.
   A staggering combination of dry weather and high temperatures
has created drought conditions in parts of the Midwest and South
that are the worst since the Dust Bowl of the 1930s.
   It's a double blow for the agriculture schools, which also sell
crops and livestock to help support research programs.
   At Ohio State University, plant pathologist Patrick Lipps
canceled five experiments using plowing methods and crop rotation
to stem root rot, stalk rot, leaf disease and other corn disorders.
   ``All my corn plots are shot,'' Lipps said. ``If you have no
corn, you have no way of assessing your yield or crop development.
You have no data. It wipes out a year's worth of research.''
   At another Ohio State experimental station in Custer, Ohio,
performance trials on hybrid corn and fertilizer are worthless
because the thirsty crop is so meager.
   ``About all of our projects are terminated or soon will be,''
said Gerold Reid, assistant manager of the farm station. ``You
chalk it up to experience and hope it doesn't happen again for a
long, long time.''
   In the hybrid test, 240 types of corn from various seed
companies are planted side by side at random to give farmers an
unbiased comparison on yield and sturdiness. Only 25 percent to 30
percent of the seared stand is growing.
   ``We've essentially lost a lot of the corn. All the rain in the
world isn't going to help it,'' Reid said.
   Each year, Ohio State showcases its work on field crops day,
taking farmers and dignitaries around its bountiful fields in
wagons. But not this year.
   ``Instead of taking people on wagon tours, we may have speakers
under shade trees talking about the drought. There's nothing to
show them,'' said Martha Carroll, spokeswoman at Ohio State.
   At the University of Georgia, 67 head of hungry cattle were
auctioned in the second year of a three-year grazing study because
the pasture burned out. Researchers wanted to see what types of
grasses would add the most beef to cattle, so feeding them grain
would have defeated the experiment.
   ``The grasses quit growing,'' said Ed Worley, superintendent of
an experimental station near Calhoun, Ga. ``The drought has been so
severe we ran out of cattle feed. There was nothing else we could
do really.''
   In another Georgia experiment, agronomy professor Phil Banks
plowed under two fields of soybeans after a test for herbicides
failed. The reason: it was too dry for weeds to grow.
   ``It just means starting over next year,'' Banks said.
   Oklahoma State University must spend an extra $100,000 to
$200,000 to feed livestock because the grazing range and
school-grown hay and grain are so skimpy. Tests were also cut back
on plots that aren't irrigated.
   ``In some cases, we'll lose a whole year's work. You never make
it up. That's a year's progress in scientific development,'' said
Ronald Johnson, associate director of Oklahoma State's agricultural
experiment station.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0138 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1421EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>d a AM-BRF--WomanFalls     07-19 0115</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-BRF--Woman Falls,0117</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>California Woman In Good Condition After 150-Foot Fall into Creek</HEAD>
<DATELINE>SALEM, Ore. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A woman was in good condition Tuesday after
she fell 150 feet into a creek below a waterfall, authorities said.
   Maureen Elizabeth Johnson, 34, of Laytonville, Calif., lost her
footing and fell into a creek below Koosah Falls at at the
headwaters of the McKenzie River, according to Linn County Sheriff
Art Martinak.
   Johnson pulled herself out of the creek and waited while her
husband, Charles, used a rope to climb down the cliff to help her
while rescuers were summoned, Martinak said.
   Johnson suffered multiple bruises, a nursing supervisor at
McKenzie-Willamette Hospital in Springfield said Tuesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0139 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1351EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p AM-CVN--Wednesday'sSchedule     07-19 0243</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-CVN--Wednesday's Schedule,300</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Tentative Schedule of Convention Program on Third Day</HEAD>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Here is the schedule of events at Wednesday's
session of the Democratic National Convention. It is subject to
change. Times are EDT.
   
   7:00 p.m. Call to order.
   7:01 p.m. Invocation by NAACP Executive Director Benjamin Hooks.
   7:11 p.m. National anthem by Kenneth Mack.
   7:17 p.m. Remarks and introduction of Democratic congressional
candidates by Arkansas Rep. Beryl Anthony, Democratic Congressional
Campaign Committee chairman.
   7:48 p.m. Remarks by Louisiana Gov. Buddy Roemer.
   7:52 p.m. Remarks by Pennsylvania Gov. Robert Casey.
   7:56 p.m. Remarks by Kentucky Gov. Wallace Wilkinson.
   8:01 p.m. Tribute to Arizona Rep. Morris Udall by Ohio Rep. Mary
Rose Oakar.
   8:06 p.m. Remarks by Democratic local elected officials.
   8:15 p.m. Remarks by Coretta Scott King.
   8:20 p.m. Remarks by former Kentucky Gov. Martha Layne Collins.
   8:26 p.m. Remarks by Connecticut Sen. Christopher Dodd.
   8:32 p.m. Introduction of young delegate.
   8:34 p.m. Video highlighting the career of DNC Secretary Dorothy
Bush, with acknowledgement by her.
   8:37 p.m. Explanation of nominating process by California Rep.
Norman Mineta.
   9:03 p.m. Nomination of Michael Dukakis for president by
Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton, followed by nomination of Jesse Jackson.
   9:44 p.m. Introduction of DNC Secretary Bush by former Rep.
Shirley Chisholm of New York.
   9:46 p.m. Remarks and roll call of states by DNC Secretary Bush.
   10:38 p.m. Announcement of results.
   10:46 p.m. Celebration and music by Dionne Warwick.
   10:55 p.m. Benediction.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0140 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1351EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-Lebanon     07-19 0376</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Lebanon,0389</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Shiites And Catholics Clash In North Lebanon</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By MOHAMMED SALAM</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Maronite Catholics in north Lebanon on
Tuesday repulsed fierce attacks on their town by Shiite Moslem
gunmen, and police said five people were killed and 25 wounded in
the fighting.
   The attacks raised the casualty toll to 11 dead and 45 wounded
since fighting began Sunday between the Shiite Jaafar clan and
residents of the Catholic town of Qoubaiyat, 70 miles northeast of
Beirut.
   A police spokesman in Tripoli, the provincial capital of north
Lebanon, said residents of Qoubaiyat repulsed three attacks Tuesday
by 2,000 Jaafars before a cease-fire was called.
   He said the Jaafars launched the attacks with a fierce barrage
from rocket launchers, howitzers and mortars. The shells slammed
into Qoubaiyat at the intensity of 10 rounds per minute at one
point, the spokesman said.
   He said several mortar rounds fell into the courtyard of
Qoubaiyat's ancient stone church, causing some damage. But the six
monks and 20 nuns sheltered there were not hurt.
   The Jaafar clan, estimated at 35,000 people, is based in the
central Bekaa Valley on the western edge of the Akkar plateau, a
region traditionally dominated by Maronite Catholics and Sunni
Moslems.
   Syria, the main power broker in Lebanon, maintains 25,000 troops
in the Bekaa Valley and north Lebanon under a 1976 peacekeeping
mandate from the 21-nation Arab League.
   The spokesman, who requested anonymity, said Brig. Gen. Ghazi
Kenaan, chief of the Syrian army's military intelligence in
Lebanon, drove to Qoubaiyat shortly after midday to supervise
implementation of the cease-fire.
   The Syrian army is to control ``a buffer zone separating
Qoubaiyat's fighters from the Jaafars,'' the spokesman said.
   He said the clashes started Sunday, one day after armed
shepherds from Qoubaiyat and the Jaafars engaged in a brief
firefight over sheep grazing terrain in the hamlet of Shanbook, on
the town's western edge.
   ``Two people were killed in the original fight for pastures. But
it seems the incident has developed into a Shiite-Maronite war,''
the spokesman added.
   Tuesday's attack on Qoubaiyat shattered a Syrian-sponsored
cease-fire declared on Monday.
   Qoubaiyat, population 25,000, is the fourth largest Catholic
town in north Lebanon. About one-fourth of Qoubaiyat's residents
serve in the Lebanese army.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0141 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1352EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p AM-CVN--ForeignMedia     07-19 0661</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-CVN--Foreign Media,690</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>3,000 Foreign Reporters Cover the Democrats</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By STRAT DOUTHAT</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   People the world around are following events at
the Democratic National Convention here, but their interest level
often is tied directly to their distance from Atlanta.
   ``We're watching from afar, figuratively and literally,'' says
Francois Champey, a reporter covering the convention for the French
television station La Cinq.
   Allan Hogan, of the Australian Broadcasting Company, says his
countrymen are interested but not intensely so. ``We're just
concentrating on the highlights, things like the platform and the
Jackson-Dukakas fracas,'' he says.
   On the other hand, the Mexican and Canadian reporters at the
convention are giving their readers a blow-by-blow account. They
say the folks back home are especially eager to know what positions
the Democrats will take on issues such as acid rain, trade barriers
and funding for the Contras in Nicaragua.
   ``The Democratic platform hints of being very protectionist on
trade issues, which could hit us hard,'' says Jose Carreno, a
Washington-based correspondent for the Mexican News Agency.
   Carreno says he thinks most Mexicans would rather see a Democrat
become president this time around.
   ``If the Republicans win, it probably will mean political
problems for us,'' he says. ``If the Democrats win, it may mean
economic problems but nonetheless, the Mexican people, for one
reason or another, tend to think the Democrats are better for
Mexico. Then, too, most Mexican Americans lean toward the
Democratic Party.''
   Christopher Thomas and Michael Finley of the Canadian
Broadcasting Corporation also say they think the Canadian people
want to see a Democrat in the White House next year.
   ``People in Canada think it's time for a change, says the
Toronto-based Finley. ``There's an intense interest in this
convention and in how the election works out in the fall; we'll be
covering it all the way.''
   The Democratic National Committee estimates as many as 3,000
foreign reporters are covering the convention. They say 319 foreign
news organizations from 51 countries have registered to attend the
big show at the Omni.
   Many of these reporters are especially interested in Jesse
Jackson, whom Carreno calls ``easily the best-known American
politican in the world, after Ronald Reagan.''
   John Magnus of VG, Norway's largest newspaper, says he has
interviewed members of the Minnesota, many of whom are of Norwegian
descent. But he says his readers also are very interested in
Jackson's convention activities.
   ``Norwegians like the fact that he speaks about racism and
challenges the establishment,'' says Magnus. ``Also, Jackson's
social programs reflect the thinking of many people in our country.
He'd be a mainstream politician in Norway.''
   No so in Taiwan, says Norman Fu of the China Times.
   ``I've been focusing on Gov. Michael Dukakis and whether he will
be able to win,'' says Fu. ``This convention is a big story in our
country because it touches foreign policy and the Reagan
administration, which has been a good friend to us.''
   For Ingo Pressler of the East German wire service ADN, a big
problem has been explaining the convention process to his readers.
   ``I'm describing the debates and touching on the issues,'' he
says. ``But frankly it's hard for our people, as it is for many
Americans, to see a real difference in your political parties.''
   Many of the foreign journalists file their stories at the U.S.
Information Agency foreign press center. They complain of being
stuck in motels far from The Omni and of the lack of access to the
convention's leading figures, who are dominated by the domestic
media.
   For Lily Chaves of the daily newspaper Excelsior in Mexico City,
major problems have been the language barrier and grasping the U.S.
nomination process.
   ``I've been concentrating on the Hispanic caucus,'' she says,
speaking in halting English.``This is my first American convention
and it's so different from Mexico, where the same party has been in
power for 59 years and everyone thinks the presidential election is
just for show.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0142 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1343EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u a PM-DefenseProbe-Documents 2ndLd-Writethru a0507 07-19 0603</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Defense Probe-Documents, 2nd Ld-Writethru, a0507,0614</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Federal Magistrate Orders Search Warrants Unsealed</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: LEADS with 10 grafs to recast, UPDATE with Courant request
for document release; picks up 10th graf, `Joseph J. Aronica...'</NOTE>
<DATELINE>HYATTSVILLE, Md. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A federal magistrate has given the
government 10 days to appeal his order releasing three search
warrants and other documents related to an investigation of alleged
fraud in Pentagon procurement.
   U.S. Magistrate James Kenkel on Monday directed the public
release of the warrants used to search the homes of a senior Air
Force procurement officer and two consultants, as well as the
inventory of items taken by agents.
   Kenkel said the more sensitive affidavits used to support the
request for the warrants could remain sealed another 45 days.
   Also Monday, the government released documents in Los Angeles
showing that wiretaps were used to gather information on Teledyne
Electronics, Northrop Corp. and Litton Industries. No details of
the wiretaps were disclosed.
   U.S. District Judge David Kenyon ordered the release of four
search warrants at the request of The Los Angeles Times and other
media organizations who sought to unseal affidavits supporting the
warrants. The government said it would also release a description
of all premises searched, but three attorneys representing
unidentified employees of the defense contractors objected on
grounds that disclosure might lead to identification of their
clients.
   Meanwhile, The Hartford (Conn.) Courant argued in papers filed
in U.S. District Court in Bridgeport, Conn., that documents related
to Norden Systems, a United Technologies Corp. subsidiary, should
be unsealed.
   The Courant asked for the release of warrants and other
documents related to a June 14 of Norden offices and Bridgeport,
Trumbull and Norwalk, Conn., and a June 15 search of the Shelton
home of senior vice president James E. Rapinac.
   Norden, a combat systems manufacturer, is suspected of
benefitting from inside information to build a battlefield
communication system for the Marines, according to other documents
already released in the investigation.
   The probe centers on allegations that defense contractors and
consultants, many of them former military men, bribed Pentagon
officials for contracting details that could be vital in winning
bids worth billions of dollars.
   ``The very scope of (this) investigation ... has overriding and
broad public interest,'' Kenkel said, suggesting the public would
be better served if news stories on the subject were based on the
legal documents instead of rumor.
   Joseph J. Aronica, assistant U.S. attorney for the Eastern
District of Virginia where the probe is centered, said no decision
had been made on whether to appeal Kenkel's decision, which
requires the unsealing of the warrants and inventory documents
within 10 days if no appeal is filed.
   The request to unseal the documents was made in a petition filed
by The Washington Post, which argued that a month already had
passed since the documents were put under seal and there has been
considerable public interest in the investigation.
   Federal prosecutors argued that disclosure of information
contained in the documents would hinder their continuing
investigations.
   The documents, including the list of items taken by police,
``would give a broad outline of what the government is looking for,
what the government has found and more important what the
government doesn't have,'' Aronica said.
   He suggested that other targets of the investigation could use
the information to fashion future testimony or to destroy documents.
   The documents involved pertain to Victor Cohen, deputy assistant
Air Force secretary in charge of buying tactical command, control
and communications systems; William Sanda, a defense industry
consultant; and Richard Seelmeyer, the operator of an air charter
service and former congressional staffer involved in defense
appropriations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0143 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1415EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p AM-CVN--Networks     07-19 0122</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-CVN--Networks,120</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Network Coverage Schedule</HEAD>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Here is a schedule of network coverage of the
Democratic National Convention for Wednesday, all times EDT:
   ABC, CBS and NBC plan live, prime-time coverage of the
convention from 9-11 p.m., with adjustments as news developments
warrant.
   C-SPAN is carrying live, interrupted coverage of the entire
convention session, beginning Tuesday at 7 p.m.
   CNN will also cover the entire session, interspersed with
commentary and interviews.
   All the network morning shows are originating from Atlanta, as
are PBS' ``MacNeil-Lehrer NewsHour,'' ABC's ``Nightline'' and CBS'
``Nightwatch.''
   Wednesday night the convention is expected to nominate Michael
Dukakis for president. The nominations of Dukakis and Jesse Jackson
and the balloting will be carried live by the networks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0144 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1417EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p AM-CVN-TipO'Neill     07-19 0388</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-CVN-Tip O'Neill,390</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Tip Says Democratic Party Was Too Liberal, Now Confident Of
Victory</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By CHRISTOPHER CALLAHAN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Thomas P. ``Tip'' O'Neill Jr., the former House
speaker who not long ago was the leading voice of the Democratic
liberal wing, said Tuesday the party had been too liberal for too
long and applauded efforts to bring the party closer to the
political center.
   ``We really got too far off to the left, to be perfectly
truthful, and I was one of those who were out there,'' O'Neill said.
   ``For years, the old liberal wing of the party tried to control
the party lock, stock and barrel, and because of that we lost an
awful lot of people,'' the Massachusetts Democrat said. ``Politics
is the art of compromise. You have to have a voice on both sides.''
   Today, O'Neill said, the Democratic Party is much more
diversified. ``We have everybody from every element _
economic-wise, ethnic-wise, regional-wise, and that's the way it
was back in the '30s when we were developing America.''
   O'Neill, 75, who retired in 1986 after 50 years in politics, the
last 34 in the House, is here as a superdelegate from Massachusetts.
   Speaking informally to reporters at a Massachusetts delegation
breakfast sponsored by Sen. John F. Kerry, D-Mass., O'Neill said he
is confident Michael Dukakis would win in November.
   ``I have never, at least in 28 years since Jack Kennedy, seen
the party as united as we are right now,'' the former speaker said.
``There's no question this ticket is going to bring us victory.''
   Although he has been out of office for 1 1@2 years, O'Neill
remains the consummate politician, stopping to chat with dozens of
fans and have his photo taken with them, treating each like a
long-lost friend with a genuine ``how are you, dear.''
   Some other convention insights from O'Neill:
   _ On Jesse Jackson: ``He knows he's made a place in history.''
   _ On platform fights: ``You need these to stimulate the
convention. Not only that, they bring out the minority views that
are expressed and the people should know about them.''
   _ On keynote speaker Ann Richards: ``I don't think a man could
get away with saying what she said, to be perfectly truthful, but
she said it beautifully. She was great, absolutely fantastic.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0145 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1411EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u p AM-CVN--OnTheFringe Bjt   07-19 0491</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-CVN--On The Fringe, Bjt,490</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Outside the Convention: Filtering Out All That BS (Blue Smoke)</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By HARRY F. ROSENTHAL</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   James Butler is due in court Wednesday morning
back home in Stuart, Fla., but he thought it important that he be
here to peddle his unique product at the Democratic National
Convention.
   The product, to put it delicately, is a filter to keep ``from
being choked to death by verbal and visual pollution.'' Its name
has two initials that could stand for Beneath Sanity, but they
don't.
   Butler could be found on Day Two of the convention hawking his
product in a block-long parking lot near the convention hall set
aside for speech-making. A sort of Atlanta Hyde Park.
   ``This convention is all Beneath Sanity,'' said Butler, a
lawyer. He used the initials, but this way it gets cleaned up.
   His filter wasn't needed right at that moment. The speaker at
the mike was addressing an audience of 17, outnumbered better than
two-to-one by 40 portable johns and more than evenly matched by
more than two dozen bored, hot, riot police.
   Butler is an oddity among the 35,000 people attracted to Atlanta
for the convention because he doesn't want to get into The Omni,
which he regards as a megasource for Blue Smoke, which is also not
the words he used.
   ``I'm trying to avoid it,'' he said. ``My filters would stop me
at the door.''
   The filters, according to the instructions, work best when
placed between the user and the source of the pollution. Its uses
include filtering out ``politicians saying they are for the common
man'' and ``lawyers asking you to trust them.''
   Ten bucks, but free to reporters looking for Bully Stories.
   While Butler was touting his product, a mock trial was being
held for House Speaker Jim Wright on the city-provided podium.
   ``Repeatedly, Jim Wright disobeyed the law,'' said Lisa
Williams, a student at the University of Georgia. ``The facts speak
for themselves and they make a liar out of Jim Wright.''
   Her reasoning is that Wright, who is chairman of the convention,
took foreign policy in his hands by negotiating with Central
American leaders to advance his own peace plan and violated
campaign finance law by having associates buy his autobiography.
   A young man named James Bieber stepped forward. ``I represent
Jim Wright and the evidence is so overwhelming, my client pleads
guilty and we throw outselves on the mercy of the court.'' Bieber,
from Costa Mesa, Calif., is Orange County chairman of the
right-wing Young Americans for Freedom.
   He came to Atlanta, he said, because ``the streets are full of
red flags and communists.''
   The trial ended with the ``judge'', Eugene Delgadio, shouting
into the microphone: ``I ask for Jim Wright to come forward. I seek
any delegate within the sound of my voice to come forward and
defend Jim Wright.''
   Nobody came. ``It's a crying shame,'' said Delgadio.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0146 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1419EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p AM-CVN--Jackson-Bentsen     07-19 0313</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-CVN--Jackson-Bentsen,320</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Jackson Praises Bentsen's Civil Rights Record</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Retransmitting a0661 to include CVN designator</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By RITA BEAMISH</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Jesse Jackson on Tuesday praised Lloyd Bentsen,
the Texas senator tapped for the Democratic running-mate spot
Jackson wanted, as a person who has a perceptive understanding of
how to reach out to minorities.
   When Bentsen joined Jackson and presidential nominee-to-be
Michael Dukakis for their summit meeting on Monday, the senator
immediately grasped the focus of the situation, Jackson told The
Associated Press in a brief interview.
   Jackson said he and Dukakis told Bentsen what they had discussed
regarding the relationship they had agreed upon. They told him they
wanted him to join them and speak to a news conference in an effort
to put out a public message of Democratic unity.
   ``What was significant was his perception, his understanding of
what had to be done to broaden the base for inclusion,'' Jackson
said.
   ``Coming out of Texas where you have to reach out to become a
U.S. senator, you necessarily have to deal with the blacks, browns,
the farmers and ranchers, the workers,'' Jackson said. ``Your
orientation becomes inclusive and expansive because it is the only
way to win. And the way he relates ... is indicative of his
experience.''
   Jackson has declined to say much about Bentsen since Dukakis
picked him a week ago, other than to note that Bentsen represents
the conservative wing of the party, the other extreme from
Jackson's more liberal constituency.
   Jackson's comments about the senator contrast with the
statements of many Jackson aides, who had criticized Bentsen for a
lack of understanding about minorities.
   Jackson said the understanding between himself and Dukakis was
worked out before they called Bentsen over on Monday to fill him in
and include him in their press conference.
   ``His presence certainly sent a balance message,'' Jackson said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0147 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1430EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p AM-CVN--RepublicanVersion     07-19 0419</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-CVN--Republican Version,440</2ND_LINE>
<BYLINE>GOP Squad Sees Democrats ``in the Twilight Zone'' with Platform
^By MIKE GLOVER</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Democratic platform is a gloomy document that
doesn't acknowledge there are ``good times in America,'' Republican
critics charged Tuesday.
   ``Last night I listened (to the speeches) and I also read the
Democratic platform. Frankly, I don't know what country they're
talking about,'' said James Miller, head of the Reagan
administration's Office of Management and Budget. ``It seems to me
they're either deceiving the American people or they're in the
Twilight Zone somewhere.''
   ``The Democratic Party is pulling together to help perpetuate
the fraud,'' said South Carolina Gov. Carroll Campbell.
   ``That's the traditional philosophy,'' said New Hampshire Gov.
John Sununu. ``It is the tax and spend wing that is in control.
They have written a platform that attempts to hide that.''
   On the day the convention took up the platform, a GOP ``truth
squad'' took aim at the document, arguing that it demonstrates that
certain nominee Michael Dukakis is cast in the traditional liberal
mold.
   ``They can hide from the `L' word all they want,'' Campbell
said. ``It's a fact of life. There is a fraud being perpetuated on
the American public.''
   Rep. Jerry Lewis, R-Calif., said Republicans must make it clear
that Dukakis is cut from the liberal mold, despite his efforts to
dodge the label.
   ``His history has been a history of public service that involves
tax and spend,'' Lewis said. ``The Democratic Party intends to be a
party without principle practicing the politics of deception.''
   Miller argued that while Democrats are trying to soft-pedal the
question of tax increases, they would be inevitable in a Democratic
administration.
   ``I know you can't do all those things the Democrats here in
Atlanta are talking about without raising taxes,'' Miller said. ``I
think somebody ought to make that point and I think the Democrats
ought to be held accountable for it.''
   Rep. Don Sundquist, R-Tenn., attacked House Speaker Jim Wright,
who chairs the Democratic convention and is under investigation for
allegations involving a book written by a staffer.
   ``I think it's devastating to have Jim Wright on the platform,''
Sundquist said. ``I think if they had any way to get him off the
platform without embarrassing him they would.''
   The GOP squad tried to turn the selection of conservative Texas
Sen. Lloyd Bentsen for the No. 2 spot on the ticket to Republican
advantage, suggesting there's a philosophical split and remembering
earlier Bentsen criticisms of ``ultraliberals.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0148 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1435EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-People     07-19 0897</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-People,0935</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>People In The News</HEAD>
<HEAD>LaserPhoto NY44</HEAD>
<DATELINE>DUBLIN, Ireland (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Douglas ``Wrong Way'' Corrigan, the
American aviator who took off from New York for California 50 years
ago and wound up in Ireland, got a shirt Tuesday to match the tie
he bought in Dublin in 1938.
   Corrigan, 81, from Santa Ana, Calif., arrived in Ireland on
Monday to mark the 50th anniversary of the flight that he still
insists was all a mistake.
   When he arrived 50 years ago, Corrigan said he had no decent
clothes to wear for the spontaneous ceremonies that celebrated his
flight, so he bought a tie at Clery's in Dublin.
   Clery's is still open, and Corrigan still has the tie. He
brought it when he revisited the shop and received a matching shirt
as a gift.
   Earlier Tuesday, Corrigan had breakfast with U.S. Ambassador
Margaret Heckler, then called on the lord mayor of Dublin, Ben
Briscoe.
   Corrigan has always maintained a frozen compass misled him into
heading east to Ireland instead of west to California.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Most people have a garage sale when they clean
out their homes. When Elton John empties his house, there's an
auction.
   And Sotheby's expects the assortment of 2,000 odd and garish
items to bring in $5 million.
   ``He said he wanted to have the house cleared, and that was
quite a project,'' said Hillary Kay, head of Sotheby's collectibles
department in London.
   Among the items taken from the rock star's house in Windsor,
England, were a pair of 54-inch boots worn by John in the film
``Tommy''; the Statue of Liberty outfit he wore during his
Bicentennial tour of the United States; and 100 pairs of
eyeglasses, including models trimmed with feathers, furs and light
bulbs.
   The auction will be in London in September, but the collection
went on display Tuesday at Sotheby's in Manhattan.
   ``I've been thinking about this for five or six years, and now
the time is right,'' John said in a statement. ``I'm changing
direction now. I'm going to be ultramodern.''
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>LOS ANGELES (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Comic Charles Fleischer, the voice of cartoon
character Roger Rabbit in ``Who Framed Roger Rabbit,'' wore a hare
suit when he delivered Rabbit's lines, and he said it helped his
concentration.
   ``My approach was as an actor _ not a voice person. The only
difference was I was off-camera,'' he said. ``It was a Zen-like,
egoless way to perform. All I had to do was concentrate on the
voice.''
   Fleischer, 37, likes to call his Rabbit acting technique
``transprojectional acting'' and has dubbed the bunny's peculiar
speech impediment as ``CCF,'' which stands for ``consonant cheek
flutter.''
   Crew members from other sets when Roger Rabbit was being filmed
in London would see Fleischer in costume. ``They'd say, `Wow, this
Roger Rabbit movie can't possibly work. The guy looks nothing like
a rabbit.'''
   Fleischer said the role changed his career. ``The phones are off
the hook. It's not ringing. Just off the hook.''
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>SEATTLE (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Actor Patrick Duffy, who has a sister on the
city's police force, will take part in a two-hour television
documentary on the Green River serial murder case.
   The Green River serial killer officially is blamed for the
deaths of as many as 48 young women, many of them prostitutes, from
1982 to 1984. The case has been described by police as the nation's
worst unsolved, recognized serial murder case.
   The show will be broadcast in December in hopes viewers might
provide leads in the case, said Detective Myrle Carner, who
suggested the documentary.
   Duffy, star of the television series ``Dallas,'' was selected
because his sister, Joanne Hunt, is a police lieutenant, and
because of their parents' violent death, police said. Terrence and
Marie Duffy were killed during a robbery at their Montana tavern in
1986.
   The case takes its name from the Green River in south King
County, where the bodies of the first five victims were found.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>LITTLE ROCK, Ark. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Actor Hal Holbrook says it's no
accident that he's only just now taking on a film directing job.
   ``I haven't wanted to (direct),'' Holbrook said. ``Actually,
I've avoided it. I was afraid I'd miss a good acting job.''
   Holbrook will direct ``Staggerwing,'' a movie about a modern-day
Jesse James, next year in rural Arkansas.
   Holbrook, known for his one-man ``Mark Twain Tonight'' show, was
in Little Rock for a reception in his honor.
   Holbrook actually has directed several episodes of ``Designing
Women,'' the television series featuring his wife, actress and
singer Dixie Carter. But he said Monday, ``I'm not a real director
yet.''
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>BIRMINGHAM, Ala. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Alabama's largest city police force was
no match for the Amazing Kreskin.
   The mentalist had police officers slap him in handcuffs at City
Hall and hide the key within an eight-block area.
   When Police Chief Arthur Deutsch and the officers returned from
hiding the key, the chief told Kreskin, ``I dare you.''
   Then Kreskin led officers up and down some streets to the ground
level of the City Hall parking garage, where he went to Deutsch's
car and found the key on top of the left front tire.
   The whole episode took less than 10 minutes.
   And for those with any doubts about Monday's publicity stunt for
Kreskin's Birmingham appearances, the chief said, ``It was strictly
on the up and up.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0149 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1445EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-Nicaragua-Bermudez     07-19 0543</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Nicaragua-Bermudez,0562</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>New Contra Director Seen In Nicaragua As No. 1 Mercenary</HEAD>
<HEAD>With AM-Contra Meeting</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By BRYNA BRENNAN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>MANAGUA, Nicaragua (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Enrique Bermudez, newly elected to the
rebels' directorate, is portrayed here as the man personally
responsible for murdering civilians and the epitome of President
Reagan's anti-Sandinista policies.
   Leftist government publications constantly refer to the
56-year-old former colonel's position in Anastasio Somoza's
national guard to evoke the memories of an often brutal
dictatorship deposed by the Sandinistas nine years ago.
   ``Somozista Guard Controls The Directorate,'' read a headline
Tuesday in the Sandinista newspaper Barricada. ``The United States
Believes In A New Somoza,'' said El Nuevo Diario, also
pro-government.
   State-run television showed pictures of Bermudez in his uniform
during the 1978-79 revolutionary war combined with shots of bodies
of burned babies.
   He is described in Nicaragua as a CIA pawn and the head of the
mercenaries, as the Sandinistas call the rebels. The rebels, or
Contras, have been backed by the United States since they began
fighting the government in 1981.
   Recent Defense Ministry bulletins reporting military actions by
the Contras begin: ``Mercenary groups loyal to the Somozista
ex-colonel...''
   Bermudez, the military chief of the Contras, was elected Monday
to the political directorate of the exile Nicaraguan Resistance
Assembly which was meeting in the Dominican Republic. The election
marked the first time the rebel combatants have had direct
representation on the political directorate.
   Bermudez was one of the founders of the first rebel groups in
1981 and then of the Nicaraguan Democratic Force, the largest
Contra fighting force, whose core is disgruntled former guardsmen.
   He is known among his followers as Commander 380, a reference to
his number at military school. He graduated in 1952. Bermudez also
studied military engineering in Brazil and spent time at the School
of the Americas in Panama.
   The former colonel took part in the U.S. actions against the
Dominican Republic in 1965. From 1976 until the Sandinistas came to
power in 1979 he served as Somoza's military attache in Washington.
   The Nicaraguan Democratic Force joined with southern front
groups and Atlantic Coast Indian rebels in 1985 under the name the
United Nicaraguan Opposition and was known by its Spanish acronyn
as UNO, which means one. But the varied Contra groups never were
seen as united.
   The only thing they have agreed on is that the Sandinistas, whom
they view as hardened Marxists, must be ousted.
   The Contras reorganized again in 1987 as the Nicaraguan
Resistance.
   Representatives of that group, made up of politicians, most of
whom live in Miami, signed the March 23 cease-fire agreement with
the Sandinistas after three days of meetings at the southern border
post at Sapoa.
   The Contras in recent weeks have staged scores of attacks in
violation of the cease-fire. The leadership claims that the actions
are by individuals acting on their own. The rebel ranks suffer deep
splits.
   In May a group of seven Contra field commanders were expelled
from Honduras to the United States for speaking out against
Bermudez.
   Contra leaders, who remain loyal to Bermudez, told The
Associated Press that Pedro Joaquin Chamorro would lose his
position on the directorate because he backed the young officers
against Bermudez.
   Chamorro was voted off the board Monday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0150 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1446EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p AM-CVN--JustTheFacts     07-19 0345</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-CVN--Just The Facts,350</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Figuring Out Facts Just Part of Convention Fun, Ma'am</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By SCOTT McCARTNEY</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Atlanta Chamber of Commerce believes
Democrats _ and media representatives _ are rather voracious
consumers, it seems.
   The group predicted the Democratic National Convention would
produce $60 million for the local economy _ half of it in direct
spending by visitors, and another $30 million in rollover spending
by local businesses and employees.
   The chamber figures, for example, that each of the 35,000
visitors estimated to be here for the political gathering will eat
and drink his or her way through $300 over five days, and spend $86
a piece at retail stores _ not counting T-shirts purchased on the
street.
   Democrats are doubling up in hotel rooms, the chamber says. A
figure of 17,200 rooms was used in the calculations, at more than
$100 a night each.
   All told, Atlanta is counting on $857 from each of the 35,000
people.
   So are the estimates coming true? Convention organizers aren't
saying. The hotel reservations office says it can't release the
number of rooms actually in use.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>___</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   Mavis Jackson has been answering 15 to 20 questions an hour
during the convention, and she isn't even a politician.
   Ms. Jackson is a librarian for the Atlanta-Fulton Public
Library, which set up a Fast Facts Information Center in the World
Congress Center adjacent to the Omni.
   The queries have come from all corners _ reporters, delegates,
even protestors. What was the text of the 1984 party platform? Who
nominated Jimmy Carter in 1976? What was the wording of the U.S.
Supreme Court opinion on sodomy? How many registered voters have
there been for each election since 1964?
   Even: What shows did Michael Dukakis' actor son John have a part
in? (``Little House on the Prairie'' and ``Jaws II.'')
   ``Whatever is going on each day _ that's what the questions seem
to focus on,'' Ms. Jackson said.
   What's been the most frequent question from delegates?
   ``How do I get to my party?'' she said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0151 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1447EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-HurricanePlanes     07-19 0341</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Hurricane Planes,0351</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Forecasters Worried By Plan to Cut Hurricane Flights</HEAD>
<DATELINE>MIAMI (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   An Air Force proposal to end hurricane
reconnaissance flights as part of a belt-tightening plan would
strip coastal areas of their most reliable early-warning storm
defense, forecasters said.
   Air Force officials have decided to eliminate the WC-130 flights
that complement weather satellites and land-based radar used to
track storms in the Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico, said Rep. Tom
Lewis, R-Fla.
   ``We feel strongly that the aircraft reconnaissance is important
to us,'' Mark Zimmer, chief of the Tropical Satellite Analysis
Center at the National Hurricane Center, said Monday. ``When you
get down to warning the coastal population, we feel that we need
the precise information of the aircraft.''
   Weather satellites provide a broad picture, Zimmer said. ``But
when we get down to actually trying to measure the wind velocity
and the pressure, we feel that the aircraft can best do that.''
   The proposal to end the reconnaissance flights would take effect
Oct. 1, 1989, just after the height of next year's Atlantic
Hurricane Season.
   It would save about $25 million a year, said Lt. Col. John Olsen
of the Military Airlift Command headquarters at Scott Air Force
Base in Illinois.
   Tracing hurricanes ``can be done other ways cheaper and
faster,'' added Air Force spokesman Capt. Mike Laughlin in
Washington, who said tests with new technology in the Pacific _
where the flights have already been eliminated _ were successful.
   He also said sending a plane and crew into the eye of a
hurricane was dangerous.
   But Lewis disagrees that the flights can be eliminated.
   ``This is ill-advised and, if carried out, would literally leave
Florida naked and defenseless in the path of a fast-moving killer
hurricane,'' Lewis said.
   Lewis said he has talked to Air Force Secretary Edward C.
Aldridge and hopes to meet with him soon.
   If he cannot dissaude Aldridge, Lewis said he hopes to unite the
Florida congressional delegation _ along with legislators from
states along the Gulf Coast _ against the cut.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0152 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1521EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-Nielsens 1stLd-Writethru a0658 07-19 0282</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Nielsens, 1st Ld - Writethru, a0658,0285</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>All-Star Game A Winner</HEAD>
<NOTE>EDS: CORRECTS in graf 2 that game was Tuesday sted Monday</NOTE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Baseball's All-Star Game on ABC was the
top-rated television program last week, but NBC's loyal couch
potatoes kept the peacock No. 1 by coming back for second helpings
of popular shows.
   Despite what some fans considered a dull 2-1 victory by the
American League, the All-Star Game had a rating of 20.5 and 36
percent of the Tuesday night viewing audience, according to figures
released Tuesday by the A.C. Nielsen Co.
   It was the best rating for the game since 1985, said Gerald
Jaffe, NBC's vice president for research.
   The All-Star pre-game show also did well, placing 11th for the
week with a 14.6 rating.
   The only other original programming in the top 10 was CBS' ``60
Minutes.'' The rest were NBC reruns: ``The Cosby Show,'' ``Golden
Girls,'' ``A Different World,'' ``Night Court,'' ``Hunter,''
``Cheers,'' ``Amen'' and ``The Abduction of Kari Swenson.''
   For the week ending July 17, NBC won with an average rating of
11.8, followed by ABC at 10.5 and CBS at 9.6. For the 43 weeks of
the current season, NBC leads at 15.1, followed by CBS at 12.7 and
ABC at 12.6.
   The rating is a percentage of the nation's estimated 88.6
million households with televisions. The share is a percentage of
sets in use.
   Among the big three networks, CBS had the week's least-watched
prime-time program, a preview of the Democratic National Convention
which attracted a 4.4 rating.
   CBS had the top-rate evening news program with an average rating
of 9.1, followed by ABC at 9.0 and NBC at 8.7.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0153 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1521EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-LesbianSoldier     07-19 0557</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Lesbian Soldier,0573</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Ben-Shalom Asks Judge To Assist Her Re-Enlistment</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JOHN SOLOMON</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>MILWAUKEE (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Nearly a year after she won reinstatement, Army
Reserve Sgt. Miriam Ben-Shalom asked a federal judge Tuesday to
prohibit the Army from denying her re-enlistment because she is a
lesbian.
   ``I don't want to stand up waving a banner and screaming `I'm
gay.' All I want is to serve the country I love and to be a good
soldier,'' Ben-Shalom said after the court hearing.
   Ben-Shalom, 40, who won reinstatement last year after a federal
appeals court ruled that she could not be discharged for admitting
her homosexuality, said she was informed she will not be allowed to
re-enlist when her term expires Aug. 11.
   Her attorney, Patrick T. Berigan, asked U.S. District Judge
Myron L. Gordon for a temporary injunction preventing the Army from
considering her sexual preferences when deciding on her request to
re-enlist.
   He also sought a permanent injunction that would effectively end
the Army's ban on homosexuals.
   ``She has been denied solely because of her sexual preference
and if the Army is denied to consider that issue then I'm confident
she will be re-enlisted.... She is an outstanding soldier,''
Berigan told the court.
   Gordon said he would try to rule on the preliminary injunction
before Aug. 11 and then move quickly to consider the other motions.
   Berigan said he was appalle that Army Reserve regulations ban
admitted homosexuals from re-enlisting even if there is no proof _
as in this case _ that any homosexual acts were performed in the
service.
   ``Here is an individual who has received nothing but high
accolades from her superior. She gets along with everybody and her
homosexuality has not been a problem and I don't see any reason why
she shouldn't be allowed to re-enlist,'' Berigan said.
   Berigan cited a February ruling by the 9th Circuit Court of
Appeals which extended the Constitution's equal protection clause
to protect homosexuals from government discrimination.
   Kenneth Kohl, a U.S. Justice Department attorney representing
the Army, said the 9th Circuit case has been scheduled for
rehearing and that three other federal appeals courts have upheld
the Army's ban on homosexuality.
   He said courts have allowed the Army to arrest soldiers for
homosexual conduct and if ``they are allowed to arrest someone for
homosexual conduct then certainly they can deny someone a job
because they are homosexual.''
   Kohl said the Army believes homosexuals are not only a risk to
national security, but undermine discipline, morale and recruiting.
   Kohl asked Gordon to consider precedents in which courts have
decided against involving themselves in internal matters because
``they found the Army is better left to make its own decisions.''
   Ben-Shalom enlisted in the 84th Division of the Army Reserves in
1974 and was promoted to sergeant in 1976 before she was discharged
later that year after she told a superior she was a lesbian.
   She appealed her discharge and in 1980, U.S. District Judge
Terence T. Evans ruled she could not be discharged for admitting
her homosexuality.
   The decision was appealed and Ben-Shalom was prohibited from
finishing her three-year term until August 1987 when a federal
appeals court in Chicago upheld the lower court's ruling that she
was protected under the First Amendment.
   The appeals court ruling did not address the issue of
re-enlistment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0154 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1534EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p AM-CVN--DukakisDelegates     07-19 0437</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-CVN--Dukakis Delegates,460</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Dukakis Delegates Praise Accords with Jackson</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By GARY LANGER</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Gov. Michael Dukakis' peace accords with Jesse
Jackson marked a fair conclusion of their political jockeying, and
Jackson now should yield to his party's nominee-elect, some Dukakis
delegates say.
   ``Jesse likes the center stage and that's fine,'' said Irving J.
Stolberg, speaker of the Connecticut House. ``At this point,
however, we're in the process of having Mike Dukakis become the
captain.''
   Stolberg, like several other Dukakis delegates interviewed about
the Dukakis-Jackson truce, expressed no resentment at Jackson's
demands for influence for his supporters within the campaign and
the Democratic Party.
   ``Everybody's doing what you would expect them to do _ posturing
for position,'' said state Sen. David Karem of Louisville, Ky.
   ``It's typical, what you'd expect of bargaining,'' said Edward
Smith, of Cairo, Ill.
   Some delegates said Jackson took advantage of Dukakis' failure
to notify him of his rejection as vice presidential running mate
last week, when Sen. Lloyd Bentsen was selected. But they did not
fault Jackson's approach.
   ``Tactically last week Dukakis gave Rev. Jackson an opportunity,
and we all seize our opportunities politically,'' said Edward
Treacy, a delegate from Indianapolis. ``When someone does something
that's not by the book, you seize the moment.''
   While the Dukakis gaffe gave Jackson ``something of an upper
hand,'' Treacy said, ``he has to remember who the nominee will be.''
   Dukakis and Jackson met Monday and emerged pledging cooperation.
Aides said Jackson's gains included about half of 25 new Democratic
National Committee seats, campaign jobs for Jackson's aides and
rules changes for 1992.
   The delegates expressed satisfaction with Dukakis' effort.
   ``He's not allowing himself to get jerked around. There's
definitely an attempt at it, but it's not successful,'' said Laurie
Donnelly of Louisville.
   ``There was a little bit of games-playing,'' said Carol Barr of
Decatur, Ill. ``I don't think it's going to hurt the fall
campaign.''
   Other Dukakis delegates were sympathetic to Jackson's purposes.
   ``Jesse had to make a point,'' said John B. Larson, Connecticut
Senate president pro tem.
   Barr said she was not bothered by Jackson's name being placed in
nomination Wednesday night; ``That's what he ran for.'' But she,
like other Dukakis delegates, also said the time was at hand for
Jackson to drop his candidacy and take up the Dukakis cause.
   ``Jesse, in the next couple of days, has his last moments of
negotiating the role he's going to play,'' said Stolberg, the
Connecticut House speaker. ``After that point, he's one of the
lieutenants in the Dukakis campaign, and I think he's going to be
an important one.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0155 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1519EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u a AM-WisconsinLobbying 1stLd-Writethru a0652 07-19 0749</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Wisconsin Lobbying, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0652,0770</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Lobbying Probe Hits Wisconsin's Clean Image</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: SUBS 16th graf, `Wisconsin hasn't...,' to CORRECT to
secretary of state sted attorney general.</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By RICHARD EGGLESTON</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>MADISON, Wis. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Wisconsin's squeaky-clean image has been
shaken by accusations that a top Madison lobbyist bought meals for
legislators and paid for travel in a possible violation of state
law.
   Some legislators and others say the the infractions are minor _
one of the meals cost $5 or $6 _ especially when compared to states
with a greater history of government scandal.
   But the state director of Common Cause, the self-styled citizen
lobbying group, said Wisconsin should judge itself by its own
standards, not by those of states where such infractions would
barely leave a ripple.
   By Wisconsin standards, he said, ``we've got some problems
here.''
   Wisconsin's lobbying law, believed to be tougher than most,
prohibits public officials from accepting anything of value from
lobbyists, except limited campaign contributions after June 1 of
election years. Common Cause is pushing for an even tougher law.
   Lobbyist Gary Goyke, a former state senator, filed lawsuits last
week in a so-far unsuccessful attempt to stop Milwaukee Magazine
from publishing an article about his lobbying practices that he
contends were based on office files taken by a former employee. The
article is to appear late this month in August editions.
   Goyke also asked for a state investigation into his activities,
predicting it would show he had violated no laws.
   The U.S. attorney's office disclosed it already was
investigating. And state Attorney General Don Hanaway said Tuesday
he would launch an investigation, after Secretary of State Douglas
La Follette announced he would drop his probe to avoid any
appearance of conflict of interest or political use in his bid for
the Democratic nomination for the U.S. Senate.
   Goyke contributed to La Follette's campaign for secretary of
state in 1986 and the two are acquiantances.
   ``It's like a witch hunt,'' said state Rep. David Travis, whose
name has not been linked to any questionable activity. ``We've all
been tarred and feathered already and there's not a heck of a lot
that's come out.''
   Goyke had a reputation as a clean politician when he was in the
state Senate, especially after waging a campaign against secrecy in
government.
   Kevin Millikin, a Madison lawyer, said he thought the incidents
didn't amount to much, ``It's friendships, a few nights in a hotel
room, a few drinks.''
   But Millikin said that means a lot in Wisconsin.
   ``The citizens expect a clean government,'' he said. ``It
certainly had the appearance of impropriety. If what you read is
true, people in Wisconsin aren't going to like it.''
   William E. Hauda, Wisconsin director of Common Cause, said the
incidents are serious for Wisconsin, whose reputation for honest
government dates to the turn-of-the-century Progressive movement.
   Wisconsin hasn't had a major government scandal this century,
since Gov. Robert M. ``Fighting Bob'' La Follette ended the
railroad lobby's stranglehold on the Legislature in 1903. The state
secretary of state says he is a distant relative of the former
governor.
   ``We're not quite as clean as people would like to have you
believe,'' Hauda said. ``You have to judge things based on
community standards, just like obscenity. Based on Wisconsin's
standards, we've got some problems here.''
   Hauda's group said Goyke's wife, attorney Nancy Rottier, gave
thousands of dollars to more than 30 legislators' campaigns, which
she defended as her right. Hauda argued that was a method used by
lobbyists to circumvent lobbying restrictions.
   Milwaukee Magazine has not said what its article will say, but
some legislators have admitted taking favors from Goyke.
   State Rep. Gordon Bradley accepted a $5 or $6 fish dinner from
Carl Otte, a former legislator and employee of Goyke.
   Wausau Mayor John Robinson, a former state representative,
failed to report $247 in air fares for members of his family
accepted from Pfizer Inc., one of Goyke's clients, to a Chicago
health-care conference at which Robinson spoke.
   Several legislators attended a Green Bay Packer-Chicago Bears
game in Green Bay, possibly at Goyke's expense.
   State Sen. Jerome Van Sistine acknowledged accepting two nights
of lodging in Los Angeles during his honeymoon as a present from
Goyke's wife, a family friend.
   Goyke says he intends to reclaim his image.
   ``I believe in being a nice guy. I like the legislative process.
I respect it,'' he said. ``I think that we have a very, very clean
state, I honestly do.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0156 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1524EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i AM-Honduras-Americans     07-19 0395</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Honduras-Americans,0404</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Leftist Group Claims Attack On U.S. Soldiers</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By FREDDY CUEVAS</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A leftist guerrilla group claimed
responsibility Tuesday for an attack that injured six U.S. soldiers.
   In a communique distributed to local newspapers, the Cinchonero
People's Liberation Movement said the ``Lempira Command'' attacked
the soldiers in ``memory of the first Honduran war chief who led an
armed resistence against foreign invaders.''
   The six soldiers were in good condition Tuesday at Palmerola Air
Base, headquarters for U.S. operations, U.S. Embassy spokesman
Charles Barclay said.
   They were among a group of nine soldiers who were leaving a
discotheque in San Pedro Sula, 125 miles northwest of Tegucigalpa,
in a rented van Sunday when assailants hurled a grenade and opened
fire on them from another vehicle.
   One of the six injured was treated and released Sunday. The
other five were hositalized.
   ``As long as there is a Yankee military and Nicaraguan
counterrevolutionary presence here there will never be peace,'' the
guerrilla group's communique said. ``Said peace will not be
achieved while the puppet army defends the rich exploiters of our
people.''
   ``We tell our peole that the gringos are not invincible, bullets
also pierce them, which has alrady been demonstrated by the heroic
peoples of Vietnam, Cuba and Nicaragua,'' it said.
   Col. Lazaro Avila Soleno, commander of the Honduran army's 105th
infantry brigade in San Pedro Sula, said on Tuesday officials had
no leads in the case. ``We consider the attack an isolated action
whose investigation will follow the course of the law to provide
tranquility to the citizens,'' Avila Soleno said.
   However, newspapers reported Tuesday that the secret police had
arrested six people in the case. Military intelligence sources said
FBI agents were in San Pedro Sula to work on the case.
   The Cinchonero guerrillas emerged in 1979 as the first armed
group of the Honduran Communist Party, which has operated
underground since it was founded in 1950. Lempira was a Maya Indian
chief who fought against Spanish conquerors.
   Authorities blame the group for more than 10 terrorist attacks
againt U.S. companies in Honduras, the hijackings of three
commercial airliners between 1979 and 1983, and the kidnappings of
businessmen.
   President Jose Azcona Hoyo told reporters Tuesday the government
was worried about the attack. ``We believe that action apparently
is part of a destabilizing plan of the international left.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0157 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1553EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w AM-VietnamMemorial     07-19 0233</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Vietnam Memorial,220</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Park Service Says Scratch on Vietnam Wall Was There Since Wall
Built</HEAD>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   National Park Service officials said Tuesday
that they have ruled out vandalism as the cause of a 4-inch scratch
on the Vietnam Veterans Memorial and that the damage has been there
since the wall was built.
   ``We were greatly relieved to rule out vandalism,'' said Sandra
Alley, a National Park Service spokeswoman.
   She said the hairline scratch, which is 4 inches long and an
eighth of an inch wide, was made when names of fallen servicemen
were sandblasted onto one of the wall's 121 granite panels. The
engravers decided to finish the job without removing the scratch,
Alley said.
   The scratch was discovered on Sunday by a park ranger.
   ``It's such a shallow mark, it was nearly invisible,'' Alley
said. ``Unless the light is right, it's very difficult to see. I'm
sure that's why it wasn't discovered before.''
   The memorial, which includes the names of 58,156 military
personnel known to have been killed in the Vietnam War, opened on
Veterans Day 1982. It quickly became the most popular monument in
the nation's capital, and now attracts 12,000 to 15,000 visitors
daily.
   Two months ago, the memorial was scratched and defaced by
vandals. More than $80,000 has been raised through private
donations to repair that damage, although work has not yet begun,
Alley said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0158 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1601EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-Brites     07-19 0324</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Brites,0340</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Bright and Brief</HEAD>
<DATELINE>PORTAGE, Pa. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Police Officer Rick Flynn is down in the
dumps. But that's easy to understand because he's patrolling in a
dump truck.
   The only police car in this eastern Pennsylvania community of
about 3,500 broke down this week, and officials were concerned
about possible insurance problems if officers used their own cars.
   So officials gave police the borough's dump truck.
   ``People who see me in the dump truck think it's funny,'' Flynn
said. ``I think it's funny, unless I'm driving it. That thing
bounces a lot.''
   Flynn said the police car should be repaired Wednesday.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>COLUMBUS, Ind. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Dick Howe paid out nearly $60 and a lesson
in human nature to students in his remedial math class this summer.
   In return, he got his students' attention, and that was worth
every penny, Howe says.
   When Howe walked into his summer school class of fourth- and
fifth-graders at Southside Elementary School last month, he knew
that motivating 18 students in the heat of summer would be
difficult.
   ``I thought, `Why not pay them? I'm getting paid to be here, so
why not them?' '' Howe said.
   The students were told they would be paid up to 20 cents per
day, depending on attendance, behavior and performance.
   ``It gives them a purpose for being here. Students have to have
goals to achieve, and this gave them something as a goal,'' Howe
said.
   The change in attitude was almost immediate.
   ``They were aware of it when I put their name on the board (for
misbehaving). They knew they were losing money,'' the teacher said.
   Payday was Friday, the end of the term. Students were paid $4.70
down to $1.70. No one got the maximum $5 for the six-week session.
   ``They left a little richer than they came in, in one way or
another. If that makes a lasting impression, then it was worth
it,'' he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0159 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1606EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p AM-CVN--JacksonDelegates     07-19 0696</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-CVN--Jackson Delegates,730</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Jackson Delegates Cool To Jackson-Dukakis Solidarity Agreement</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By RITA BEAMISH</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   There is a notable lack of enthusiasm among Jesse
Jackson backers about his solidarity agreement with Michael Dukakis
even as they express hope the relationship could bring tangible
victories in the future.
   The official Jackson campaign line on the Jackson-Dukakis
agreement is a positive one _ emphasizing the agreement in which
Dukakis will involve Jackson and his staff in the general election,
providing resources for Jackson to campaign for the Democrats.
   But many Jackson supporters, who wanted their candidate on the
ticket, are disappointed in the agreement, campaign aides
acknowledged.
   ``The important thing here is that Reverend Jackson, who was
disturbed over feeling that he was not being properly courted by
the Dukakis people, is now satisfied,'' said Rep. Louis Stokes,
D-Ill.
   But even among some who were putting out the positive ``spin,''
there was at times as much resignation as enthusiasm in the
reaction, and acknowledgement that Jackson's constituency might not
buy into it.
   Rep. Ron Dellums, D-Calif., said the agreement would give
Dukakis ``more credibility'' with Jackson's supporters, but added,
``It remains to be seen whether the people who have been turned off
over the past few days can be turned on again.''
   ``There is nothing really to be happy about,'' said Rep. Charles
Rangel, D-N.Y., a key Jackson adviser. ``The only thing we have
gained is entering an atmosphere where (the two campaigns) can work
out a strategy to win,'' in November.
   Rangel said that was how it should be among members of the same
political party. So the Jackson-Dukakis arrangement really puts
them at what he considers the starting gate. For that reason, he
said he would hardly consider Monday's agreement a victory.
   Jackson has mentioned the agreement only fleetingly in speeches
since he and Dukakis announced it, focusing instead on his future
agenda and the issues he has highlighted throughout his campaign.
   In answer to the question ``What did Jesse get?'' some of his
supporters see only crumbs from the agreement announced with
Dukakis.
   ``The only thing Dukakis gave up was the opportunity to lose,''
without Jackson's support, said Rangel. As to the agreement that
Jackson staff members would be integrated into the Dukakis team,
Rangel said, ``I don't see why if you sacrifice your advisers and
time'' to help another candidate, ``that this is a great
accomplishment.''
   Officially, key advisers say the new attitude and respect shown
by Dukakis is what is most important and specifics can follow from
there.
   The future will tell if the new relationship pans out into real
access and influence by Jackson in Dukakis' politics, they said.
   ``We have to take him for his word that he will include Jesse
Jackson in a very substantial and meaningful way,'' said
Assemblywoman Maxine Waters of California.
   An aide to one Jackson congressional adviser said his boss was
``very disappointed'' and felt the concessions to Jackson were not
particularly meaningful.
   Dukakis agreed to push for legislation on a number of issues he
already supports _ tougher sanctions against South Africa,
statehood for the District of Columbia, simplification of voter
registration, and greater commitment to minority business set-aside
programs.
   Jackson also won party rules changes so he can get nearly half
the 25 at-large members of the Democratic National Committee, and a
new DNC vice chair.
   ``So what?'' said the congressional aide to all of the above.
   Mayor Andrew Young noted, however, that, ``People don't realize
you don't get anything at a convention unless you win.''
   And, he added, Jackson ``didn't really need anything,'' because
he has an enthusiastic following and can go his own way outside of
traditional political bargains.
   A close Jackson confidant, former Carter administration official
Bert Lance, refuses to entertain talk of Jackson losing anything in
light of what he has accomplished with his campaign.
   Looking out on a street lined with about 250 cheering people who
gathered Tuesday to wait for Jackson outside a small, unannounced
breakfast speech, Lance insisted, ``He won. There are no advance
people putting this on.''
   And he said of the convention, ``They don't give out door prizes
down there.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0160 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1617EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w AM-AmtrakDerail     07-19 0338</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Amtrak Derail,320</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Iowa Train Derailment Blamed on Workman's Failure to Hit Track
Switch</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By H. JOSEF HEBERT</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The derailment of an Amtrak passenger train
near Russell, Iowa, occurred last October after a workman failed to
restore a track switch to its proper position, a federal
investigation concluded Tuesday.
   The two locomotives and 11 of 14 passenger cars of Amtrak's
``California Zephyr'' collided with maintenance equipment on a side
track, injuring 15 crew members and 107 of the 230 passengers
aboard.
   The National Transportation Safety Board concluded in its report
on the Oct. 12, 1987, accident that a laborer who had used the
maintenance equipment had parked it on a siding, but failed to
return the switch for through-traffic use.
   Blood and urine samples from the Burlington Northern Railroad
workman later showed small traces of marijuana, but the levels were
so small that the board could not link drug use specifically to the
accident.
   The board also blamed the crane operator and a track forman for
failing to check the switch and criticized the management of the
Burlington Northern Railroad, which owns the track, for inadequate
training of maintenance crews and not reducing the track speed in
the work area.
   The safety board also said that a signal banner at the switch,
which would have warned the Amtrak engineer that he was about to
head onto a track siding, was so rusted that it was difficult to
see.
   The Amtrak train, traveling about 60 miles an hour, went onto
the side track and plowed into the equipment, which included a
maintenance crane and three flat cars, the safety board said.
   The eastbound Zephyr was traveling on the westbound track at the
time of the accident because a stretch of the eastbound track had
been closed for repairs.
   The board also said that the severity of some of the passengers'
injuries was increased because items like television sets, coffee
makers and seat cushions broke free inside the Amtrak cars during
the accident.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0161 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1549EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u p PM-CVN--ConventionRdp 4thLd-Writethru a0662 07-19 1062</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-CVN--Convention Rdp, 4th Ld-Writethru, a0662,1090</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Democrats to Cheer Jackson, Debate His Platform Planks</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Updates with startingt time moved back, subbing 3rd graf, ``I
think</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By TERENCE HUNT</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Michael Dukakis, in a spirit of unity, yields
center stage tonight to Jesse Jackson for a speech certain to
ignite a thunderous rally at the Democratic National Convention.
He'll deliver ``an upbeat speech,'' Sen. Lloyd Bentsen, Dukakis'
running mate, predicted today.
   Democratic leaders including Bentsen, the man who got the No. 2
spot Jackson sought, were all emphasizing harmony today. Before
Jackson goes on, delegates will debate three platform planks that
Jackson wants changed, but agreements to disagree without anger
apparently have been worked out.
   ``I think it's going to be a good debate, but I don't think it's
going to be divisive and I don't think it will be rancorous,'' Rep.
Bill Gray, a Jackson supporter closely involved with platform
deliberations, said on NBC-TV. Today's convention starting time was
moved up from 4:30 p.m. to 3 p.m. EDT to allow more time for
debate, but then was pushed back to 4:15 p.m. because so few
delegates showed up.
   While unity was the convention byword, there was trouble on the
streets on the third day of demonstrations.
   Just blocks from the convention site, police arrested 134
anti-abortion protesters at a clinic where abortions are performed.
They were charged with criminal trespassing, unlawful assembly or
other counts. Until today, only one arrest had been reported.
   Meanwhile, Dukakis visited the gravesite of Martin Luther King
Jr. and praised the slain civil rights leader as ``a man of action,
a man of inspiration. He cared very deeply about some basic human
values.''
   King's widow, Coretta Scott King, told Dukakis, ``We wish you
well in this effort because we are counting on you to set things
right again.''
   Bentsen, in an interview on CBS-TV, showed no concern about
platform differences being aired on televison tonight. ``If they
bring these issues to the floor, well that's the way conventions
are supposed to go,'' he said.
   Asked on NBC if he expected Jackson's address to have a theme of
unity, he said, ``I certainly expect it will be an upbeat speech.''
   Jackson, the runner-up reluctant to quit, was given 28 minutes _
starting at 10:21 p.m. EDT _ to address the 5,372 delegates and
alternates, following a video tribute to his campaign and his cause.
   ``The tone has to do with bold leadership,'' Jackson said,
previewing his remarks. ``That's what we need: new direction, sound
ideas and America must never surrender to be bigger and be better.''
   Both Dukakis and Jackson will have their names put in nomination
for the presidency but it will be Dukakis who stands at the podium
Thursday night to claim the prize.
   With his rival wielding overwhelming power, Jackson struck a
gentleman's agreement on platform disputes, agreeing to withdraw 10
of 13 minority planks he championed. His biggest concession was
dropping a demand for a five-year freeze on Pentagon spending.
   Party sources said Dukakis would instruct his delegates to vote
down Jackson's call for higher taxes on the wealthy and no first
use of nuclear weapons, and that Jackson's call for a Palestinian
homeland would be debated and then withdrawn without a vote.
   In a convention fine tuned for television viewers, the Democrats
set aside their customary wrangling over rules and credentials _
adopting reports from those committees in a blink of an eye _ and
brought forth humorist Garrison Keillor and a bevy of
elementary-school children to recite the Pledge of Allegiance and
sing the National Anthem.
   The convention opened _ on time _ with attacks on the record of
the Reagan administration and the competence of George Bush, the
certain presidential nominee of the Republican Party.
   Texas State Treasurer Ann Richards, the keynote speaker, said
Bush, in eight years as Reagan's vice president, ``hasn't displayed
the slightest interest in anything we care about. And now that he's
after a job he can't get appointed to, he's like Columbus
discovering America. He's found child care. He's found education.''
   ``Poor George, he can't help it. He was born with a silver foot
in his mouth,'' she said, sending the crowd into roars of laughters
and applause.
   Dukakis telephoned her afterwards with congratulations. ``What
am I going to say on Thursday? You said it all,'' he told her.
   Predictably, Republicans didn't like the barbs. Sheila Tate,
Bush's spokeswoman, said Americans ``are more interested in
leadership than laugh lines. Her audience liked it. I'm not sure
how well it will play everywhere else. I don't think nastiness ever
plays very well.''
   No one could accuse the Democrats of conducting their business
in a smoke-filled room. Democratic National Chairman Paul Kirk
ruled at that outset that smoking was forbidden.
   Neither Dukakis nor Jackson made an appearance at the convention
Monday, instead watching it on television _ when they weren't on
television themselves in network interviews.
   ``It's a madhouse, but I love it,'' state Sen. Paul Feleciano of
Wichita, Kan., shouted to a camera crew on the convention floor. He
said the summit meeting between Dukakis and Jackson earlier in the
day had put many delegates at ease.
   ``Sure, people are still loyal to their candidate, but we're
sitting hand in hand, laughing and joking. The animosity is not
there anymore,'' Feleciano said.
   Not everyone felt that way.
   William Crawford, a Jackson supporter from Indianapolis, said,
``George Bush is not attractive, but I don't think we can say
Dukakis at any price.''
   Former President Jimmy Carter, his hair turned gray, exhorted
the delegates to pursue ``Unity, one more time, unity.''
   In a revised version of his 1976 campaign slogan, Carter said,
``My name is Jimmy Carter and I am not running for president. Did
you hear that George?'' It was a pointed jab at Bush, who often
holds up the Carter years to ridicule.
   Dukakis and Jackson met for nearly three hours Monday morning to
clear up disputes that had threatened to disrupt the convention.
After their talks, Jackson said he would not challenge Dukakis'
selection of Texas Sen. Lloyd Bentsen as running mate.
   In return, Jackson and his supporters were promised greater
standing in the party, up to half of the 25 at-large slots on the
Democratic National Committee, and resources to campaign on behalf
of the ticket this fall.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0162 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1556EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u a AM-SoaringExecutives Bjt   07-19 0502</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Soaring Executives, Bjt,0519</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Executives Try Riding in Gliders As Part of Management Program</HEAD>
<HEAD>LaserPhoto STC1</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By DAVID S. MARTIN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>JULIAN, Pa. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Soaring at 2,000 feet in a glider gave
personnel manager Jack Thomas a whole new perspective on risks in
the business world.
   ``When you take a risk doing that, you go back and think about
taking a risk making a business decision. It's no big deal,'' said
Thomas, who works for the Digital Equipment Corp. in Maynard, Mass.
   Thomas took the half-hour glider ride as part of a four-week
program for upper-level managers that began July 11. Albert A.
Vicere, who runs the 22-year-old Executive Management Program at
Penn State University, said the extracurricular activities are
intended to push the current class of 36 managers from 10 countries
completely out of their element.
   ``It's an attempt to open their minds to new concepts by also
having them experience new things,'' Vicere said.
   Other eye-opening activities include snake handling and scuba
lessons, plus at least seven hours a day in class.
   Executives taking part in the $8,500 program came from as far as
Malaysia and Chile. Most are in their mid-40s and work for large
corporations, according to Vicere. There are four classes scheduled
per year.
   During the day, they attend courses on internationalization of
the business world, government-business relations and leadership
and management, he said.
   They also have some evening sessions and as much as two hours of
homework a day.
   In what little spare time remains, Vicere gives the managers a
chance to take golf, racquetball, tennis and scuba lessons. Besides
providing new experiences, the activities promote camaraderie,
Vicere said.
   He also has shuttled the managers to Shaver's Creek
Environmental Center and plans an all-day canoe trip. All
activities are voluntary, Vicere said.
   At the environmental center on the opening day of the program,
NYNEX Corp. staff director Bonnie Miller said she handled a black
rat snake.
   ``This is a week of firsts,'' said Ms. Miller, who also took a
glider ride and golf lessons.
   ``On the postcards I'm sending, I'm writing, `I'm doing this and
I'm doing that,' and at the bottom, I put, `P.S., I'm also working
very hard,''' she said.
   On Sunday, Thomas stood with two other classmates along the edge
of a narrow, 1,000-foot asphalt runway, waiting to ride in a
bullet-shaped, two-seat glider at Ridge Soaring Gliderport.
   ``They're teaching us new things and new ideas, this fits right
in,'' said John Donovan, a district engineer for New York Telephone
Co.
   Debbie Davis, a data processing auditing manager for Virginia
Power Co. in Richmond, Va., added, ``This is not the sort of thing
auditors generally do.''
   Other universities, including business schools at
Carnegie-Mellon University and Dartmouth College, also take
corporate executives outdoors.
   Carnegie-Mellon's Graduate School of Industrial Administration
offers a weekend sailing trip on the Chesaspeake Bay as part of its
program.
   ``It really emphasizes bringing the whole class together,'' said
Robert Dalton, director of executive education at Carnegie-Mellon.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0163 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1614EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i AM-Soviet-ArmsTreaty 1stLd-Writethru a0699 07-19 0433</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Soviet-Arms Treaty, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0699,0440</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Soviets Offer to Scrap Krasnoyarsk Radar</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Leads with 5 grafs to CORRECT to ``phased array'' sted
``phrased array.'' Pickup 6th graf pvs, ``Karpov, who...''</NOTE>
<DATELINE>MOSCOW (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Soviet Union offered Tuesday to scrap a radar
station the United States says is in violation of the
anti-ballistic missile treaty if Washington will honor the 1972
pact for at least 10 more years.
   Viktor P. Karpov, chief of the Foreign Ministry disarmament
section, also repeated the Kremlin contention that the Krasnoyarsk
radar station in Siberia is ``aimed at monitoring space objects''
and thus outside the ABM treaty, which restricts superpower
defenses against nuclear missiles.
   Some advisers to President Reagan are said to recommend that he
accuse the Soviets of making a ``material breach'' of the treaty
with the phased-array radar station and abrogate the agreement.
   Other advisers have suggested Reagan try to persuade the Soviets
to raze the facility in the interest of preserving the ABM accord.
   According to the Pentagon, a phased-array radar is able to track
many objects accurately, meaning it could detect ballistic missiles
and contribute to ABM battle management.
   Karpov, who is in charge of Soviet arms negotiations, told a
news briefing that construction work at the radar station has been
stopped as a sign of ``good will.''
   ``This moratorium is still in force,'' he said. Karpov once led
the Kremlin delegation to U.S.-Soviet nuclear arms talks in Geneva,
where negotiators now are discussing a 50 percent cut in strategic
nuclear weapons.
   He said the Soviet Union wants an arrangement that would commit
the superpowers to the ABM treaty for at least 10 years, describing
that as ``the necessary element'' for such an agreement on
long-range nuclear arms.
   ``In this framework we are prepared also for a radical solution
to the Krasnoyarsk radar issue raised by the Americans,'' he said.
   ``If an understanding to abide by the ABM treaty, as signed in
1972, is reached, the Soviet Union will be ready to dismantle the
Krasnoyarsk radar in a verifiable way that would leave no doubts on
the part of the United States.'' The ABM treaty limits how fast and
far the United States can go in its plan for a space-based defense
against ballistic missiles.
   The Strategic Defense Initiative, commonly called ``Star Wars,''
is being carried out under what the Reagan administration calls a
``strict interpretation'' of the treaty.
   Broader interpretation would provide more leeway and scrapping
the agreement would remove all legal restraints on the U.S.
program, which the Soviets say represents a new and dangerous stage
of the arms race.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0164 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1640EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-TwelfthMan     07-19 0369</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Twelfth Man,0378</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Body Of World War II Veteran Found</HEAD>
<DATELINE>ANCHORAGE, Alaska (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The remains of a soldier believed to be
an American missing since World War II have been discovered on a
remote Aleutian Island, the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service says.
   ``Our records show that 12 American soldiers were stationed
there during World War II, and only 11 came home,'' Walt Steiglitz,
the service's regional director, said Monday. ``After 45 years of
missing in action, the 12th soldier is finally coming home too.''
   Fish & Wildlife biologists on Buldir Island found a skull, leg,
arm and pelvic bones a few yards from their camp earlier this
month. The biologists are studying seabirds on the tiny, rocky
island about 1550 miles southwest of Anchorage.
   Chuck Diters, an archaeologist at the agency's Anchorage
headquarters, said American military boots, an M-1 rifle with
bayonet, an American coin and a pocketwatch inscribed with ``U.S.''
were found with the bones.
   A wallet also was recovered, but Diters said its contents were
deteriorated too much to make an immediate identification of the
owner.
   ``The body was wedged into some large boulders, as if the
soldier may have been trying to escape from the weather,'' said
biologist Mike Boylan. ``The terrain is very rough and disorienting
there. He probably got lost and died of exposure.''
   The remains were found about four miles from what is left of a
military camp on the northwest corner of the island. The remains
and personal effects were being taken by boat to the U.S. Naval
Base at Adak.
   Military spokesmen in Anchorage said Tuesday they did not know
the name of the missing soldier or what would be the next step in
identifying the remains.
   A Fish & Wildlife spokesman said the remains were found July 12
or 13, but radio communications with Buldir are difficult and he
was not sure of the date.
   The 5,000-acre island is halfway between Attu and Kiska, two
islands occupied by the Japanese from 1942 to 1943. An American
invasion drove the Japanese from Attu, and they abandoned Kiska a
short time later.
   No battles were fought on Buldir, which became the site of a
12-man U.S. military weather station.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0165 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1640EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-CoinShow     07-19 0302</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Coin Show,0311</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Competing Olympic Designs to be Displayed</HEAD>
<DATELINE>CINCINNATI (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   All 84 designs submitted for the U.S. 1988
Olympic coin will be among the displays this week at the American
Numismatic Association's convention.
   The entries were submitted to Treasury Department officials by
the staff of the U.S. Mint in Philadelphia and nine outside
artists, convention officials said. Mint sculptors had the winning
entries for two of the four sides of the gold and silver coins.
   The five-day convention begins Wednesday, and is expected to
draw 15,000 people, said Deborah J. Muehleisen, spokeswoman for the
coin association, said.
   The convention offers coin collectors an opportunity for buying
and trading, as well as educational sidelights. One display will be
on the scarcity of pocket change during the Civil War.
   A Liberty bust by Elizabeth Jones, chief sculptor and engraver
for the U.S. Mint, was picked for the obverse of the $5 gold 1988
Olympic commemorative coin. An eternal flame design by Marcel
Jovine of New Jersey is on the back of the gold.
   The $1 silver coin's obverse, which shows the Olympic flame
passing between two torches, is by Patricia Lewis Vernani of New
Hampshire. Mint sculptor-engraver Sherl J. Winter submitted the
winning reverse design for the silver _ five Olympic circles in a
wreath.
   Among the mints represented will be the United States, British
Royal, Royal Canadian, China, the Netherlands, Italian State,
Mexico, Portuguese State and Singapore, and the Bermuda Monetary
Authority.
   The Dutch Mint has chosen the convention to introduce its first
double ducat since 1867. The new double ducat, priced at $185, is
slightly larger than a quarter and of 0.983 fine gold.
   Australia, like Cincinnati, is celebrating its bicentennial, and
will introduce the 1988 Australian Nugget Proof issue. The Royal
Canadian Mint will offer new commemorative coins.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0166 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1640EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-Obit-Krasner     07-19 0205</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Obit-Krasner,0211</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Academy Award-Winning Cinematographer Dead at 84</HEAD>
<DATELINE>LOS ANGELES (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Cinematographer Milton Krasner, whose work on
the 1954 classic ``Three Coins in the Fountain'' earned him an
Academy Award, has died of heart failure. He was 84.
   Krasner died Saturday at the Motion Picture and Television
Hospital, said his niece, Sharon Webster.
   Krasner, who started his career nearly 70 years ago as an
assistant cameraman with the old Vitagraph and Biograph studios in
New York, retired in the late 1970s afer photographing the TV
series ``McMillan and Wife'' for several years.
   Krasner worked on a number of films, including ``The Invisible
Man,'' ``An Affair to Remember,'' ``All About Eve,'' ``The Woman in
the Window,'' ``Demetrius and the Gladiators, ``The Seven Year
Itch,'' ``Bells Are Ringing,'' ``The Four Horsemen of the
Apocalypse,'' ``How the West Was Won,'' ``The Sandpiper'' and
``Beneath the Planet of the Apes.''
   He received an Academy Award for the film story of three young
American women who find romance in Rome. He also was nominated for
``Arabian Nights,'' ``All About Eve'' and ``An Affair to Remember.''
   Krasner is survived by two brothers, a son and a granddaughter.
   Information about services was not released by the family or the
hospital.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0167 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1755EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>d a AM-BRF--MsVsMrs     07-19 0190</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-BRF--Ms Vs Mrs,0193</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Bar Association Launches Investigation</HEAD>
<DATELINE>PITTSBURGH (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Allegheny County Bar Association will
investigate the treatment of women by the judicial system following
a federal judge's order that an attorney use her married name in
court, the association president said.
   But Thomas Hollander said plans for the investigation were in
place before the dispute erupted July 8 in the courtroom of U.S.
District Judge Hubert Teitelbaum.
   ``Women have made a lot of progress, but there is still a lot of
ground to gain,'' Hollander said Monday, the same day several
women's groups called for Teitelbaum's resignation.
   Fueling the formation of a bar association committee on women
and the courts was Teitelbaum's threat to jail attorney Barbara
Wolvovitz for refusing to use her husband's surname while
practicing in his courtroom.
   Teitelbaum later apologized to Ms. Wolvovitz and acknowledged
she was legally entitled to use the name she chose.
   Hollander said the bar association has 53 committees and
sections, staffed by members of the bar and bench. But he said he
would be willing to have representatives from outside the legal
profession serve on the new committee.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0168 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1643EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-TrailsideSlayings     07-19 0294</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Trailside Slayings,0302</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Second Deathy Penalty Imposed In `Trailside Slayings'</HEAD>
<DATELINE>SAN DIEGO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A man convicted in the ``Trailside Slayings''
was sentenced to death for the second time Tuesday for murdering
five hikers in 1980.
   David J. Carpenter, 58, of San Francisco, had already been
sentenced to death for murdering two women in 1981 in Santa Cruz
County state parks.
   Superior Court Judge Herbert Hoffman on Tuesday imposed the
sentence recommended June 27 by the jury that convicted Carpenter
of first-degree murder.
   Hoffman could have sentenced Carpenter to life in prison without
parole. He refused to do so, however, after recounting Carpenter's
criminal history since 1960, which involves at least eight violent
attacks on women.
   ``Mr. Carpenter is, without question, a serial killer ... and a
habitual criminal likely to commit violent acts against others,''
Hoffman said. ``Two previous periods of incarceration, from 1960-69
and 1970-79, had no effect on his criminal activity.''
   All appeals in capital cases go directly to the state Supreme
Court.
   Marin County Public Defender Frank Cox had asked that
Carpenter's life be spared, arguing that he committed the crimes
during moments of rage arising from a lifetime of abuse and
rejection.
   Deputy District Attorney John Posey contended that Carpenter
shot the hikers execution-style after his sexual advances were
rejected, and said Carpenter deserved to die for the crimes. Four
of the five 1980 victims were women.
   Carpenter also was convicted of raping two victims and trying to
rape a third during his six-week killing spree, which left many of
northern California's popular hiking areas nearly deserted until
his May 1981 arrest.
   His trial was moved to San Diego after a judge ruled extensive
publicity about the case prevented him from receiving a fair trial
in northern California.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0169 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1701EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-Lyng-FarmVisits     07-19 0369</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Lyng-Farm Visits,0379</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Farmers Get Help from Nature; Hope for More from Washington</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By The Associated Press</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng, beginning a 10-state
inspection of drought damage, met Tuesday with farmers in Ohio and
Indiana who got some relief from nature but are hoping for more
from Washington.
   As much as 2{ inches of rain fell in the two states on Monday
and Tuesday. But at Lyng's first stop, John A. Scherer's farm near
Shelby, Ohio, the cornfields were still bone dry only a half-inch
below the surface.
   In Indiana, Lyng said his department has received all the crop
data required to assess requests for disaster declarations, but
gave no indication what assistance would be offered.
   ``I don't think it will take very long for us to do an
evaluation,'' he said at Avery Sheets' farm near West Lafayette,
Ind. ``I would say in days rather than weeks or months.''
   At best, Sheets said, he may harvest 30 percent of a normal crop
from the 1,000 acres he planted in corn. ``It might be just all cob
and no kernels,'' he said, showing an ear to Lyng.
   While the agriculture secretary expressed concern about the
plight of farmers, whose crops have withered under 100-degree
temperatures and a months-long rainfall shortage, several of the
farmers said interest and aid might be too late.
   Lyng ``came knowing there weren't any answers,'' said Jim
Rieman, a farmer from Crestline, Ohio.
   In Ohio, Lyng said he anticipated heavier losses than the
national average.
   ``This has always been a reliable production area,'' Lyng said,
and that might account for the low percentage of farmers with
federal crop insurance. The insurance is required to benefit from a
disaster declaration Lyng signed last week for farmers in Ohio and
Missouri.
   Gov. Richard Celeste, who left the Democratic National
Convention in Atlanta to join Lyng, said Ohio's corn crop could be
all but wiped out. But he said rain may help some soybean fields
recover.
   ``We could lose two-thirds or more of our corn crop,'' Celeste
said. ``There's nothing the rain can do, except maybe for the
soybeans.''
   Lyng is also visiting farms in Tennessee, Missouri, Iowa, South
Dakota, North Dakota, Minnesota, Wisconsin and Michigan.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0170 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1701EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w AM-Drought-SeedCorn     07-19 0193</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Drought-Seed Corn,180</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>USDA Says Seed Corn Won't Be Counted As Feed Grain</HEAD>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Growers of hybrid corn for seed will have the
option of planting their crop and not have it counted as a feed
grain under 1988 acreage programs, the Agriculture Department said
Tuesday.
   Acting Undersecretary Richard W. Goldberg said the hybrid seed
corn may not be grown on acreage taken from production under 1988
programs or on land enrolled in the long-term Conservation Reserve
Program.
   Further, the additional acreage used to produce seed will not be
counted when establishing base acreages for future feed grain
crops, he said. Farmers who decided to use this option will not be
eligible for 1988 feed grain program benefits on the acres used for
the seed crop.
   Goldberg said the action was taken to help offset the effects of
drought on seed farms and to ensure that farmers will have enough
seed for 1989 plantings.
   The option is expected to be used primarily in southern areas
where the growing season is longer. Interested producers can check
with local offices of the Agricultural Stabilization and
Conservation Service for further details, he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0171 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1647EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u p AM-CVN--ThisSpaceAvailable     07-19 0542</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-CVN--This Space Available,540</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Podium Time Goes Begging At Demonstration Site</HEAD>
<HEAD>With AM-CVN--Protests</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JOSEPH B. FRAZIER</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   What if they gave a protest rally and nobody came?
   It's been happening a lot at the Democratic National Convention,
where the city took over a two-acre parking lot across the street
from the convention site for use by demonstrators.
   Demonstrators with a tub to thump are finding that causes dear
to their hearts are sometimes of little interest to just about
anyone else.
   Sometimes even the demonstrators don't show up.
   Weeks before the convention, groups requesting time at the lot
were assigned two-hour time slots for use of a city-provided stage
and sound system.
   The lot holds some 35,000 people, but Alternative `88, an
umbrella organization for a number of protest groups, went to U.S.
District Court just before the convention, seeking additional lots
for demonstrators. They lost, and lost an appeal.
   Despite the court fights, many of the scheduled demonstrators
are not showing up and most who appear do so to an audience of only
a few spectators, many of them journalists.
   An Atlanta-based conservative group didn't show up Monday, nor
did a New York City-based group backing the independent
presidential campaign of Lenora Fulani.
   When Fulani, who had said she would bring 10,000 supporters to
Atlanta, appeared later Monday there was a crowd of only about
1,000, many of whom were part of a march organized by civil rights
leader Hosea Williams.
   That was one of the larger crowds so far to occupy the lot.
LEGAL, a gay and lesbian rights organization, brought about 2,000
on Sunday.
   About 15 people, easily half of them journalists, turned out
Tuesday morning to watch Eugene Delguardio, complete with judicial
robes, stage a ``trial'' of House Speaker Jim Wright.
   About a dozen onlookers and reporters watched when the family of
Darrell Alexander took the podium to urge that he be released from
a jail in Ghana. He has been accused of trying to export parrots
illegally from that west African nation.
   Several other groups drew tiny crowds and often were outnumbered
by police assigned to the sweltering lot to ensure order.
   There have been minor face-offs between demonstrators and police
at the lot, and a demonstration by white supremacists was called
off by the city when the marchers were outnumbered by angry
counter-demonstrators. Police also canceled the group's rally on
the steps of the Capitol, saying they wanted to avoid possible
bloodshed.
   Many of the larger demonstrations have taken place away from the
designated demonstration area.
   Police arrested 134 anti-abortion protesters at the Atlanta
SurgiCenter about two miles from the convention hall on Tuesday. On
Monday about 1,200 protesters went through downtown Atlanta to
protest alleged discriminatory lending policies for residents of
poorer neighborhoods, but the demonstrators but did not go to the
demonstration lot.
   Tuesday morning, when a scheduled demonstration by AIDS patients
failed to materialize, one group of officers passed the time ogling
a scantily clad young woman who seemed to enjoy posing in the
window of the Omni Hotel across the street from the demonstration
lot.
   ``Doesn't anybody have any binoculars?'' asked one. ``The ...
(Georgia Bureau of Investigation) is never around when you need
them.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0172 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1724EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w AM-VOACensorship     07-19 0423</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-VOA Censorship,410</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Government Says Security at Stake in Voice of America Article</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By TOM SEPPY</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The federal government contended Tuesday that
foreign policy and national security interests require a Voice of
America employee who wrote an article critical of the agency to
submit the article to a censor before publication.
   William Dempster, an assistant U.S. attorney, told a U.S.
District Court judge that the State Department's pre-publication
regulations are designed to help keep employees from violating the
law.
   ``Substantial foreign policy and national security interests
support the pre-publication regulations,'' he told the court.
``Such activity (writing an unauthorized article) could jeopardize
security, disrupt foreign relations and impair the mission of the
agency.''
   At issue in the case is an article written by Voice of America
employee Carolyn Weaver that is scheduled to appear in the
September-October issue of the Columbia Journalism Review. Ms.
Weaver said in an affidavit that the article details political
abuses by the VOA, including ``the apparent illegal use of VOA
programs for covert activity.''
   Ms. Weaver's attorney, Stephen M. Kohn, told the court that the
regulation ``is too broad ... goes too far.''
   ``Ms. Weaver is a part-time worker ... a script writer ... for
the VOA. She doesn't deal with secrets.'' he said. ``What they (the
government) want to do is take regulations that cover the CIA
(Central Intelligence Agency), expand the coverage and apply them
to all employees who work in anything to do with foreign policy.''
   U.S. District Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson took the case under
advisement. He said, however, he could not guarantee he would make
a decision on issuing a preliminary injunction declaring the
regulations unconstitutional in time for Ms. Weaver to make her
deadline of July 20 with the Columbia Journalism Review.
   Kohn said afterward that if Jackson rules against Ms. Weaver, he
would seek an expedited review before the U.S. Court of Appeals in
Washington.
   Ms. Weaver challenged the State Department rules after she was
ordered to submit the article to a censor.
   Under State Department regulations that also apply to the VOA,
employees of the U.S. Information Agency and the Agency for
International Development are required to submit their writings,
speeches or teaching materials ``on matters of official concern''
for clearance prior to publication.
   According to the department's Foreign Affairs Manual, an
employee's work can be denied clearance if it discloses classified
information or is inaccurate or ``inconsistent with current foreign
policy or can reasonably be expected to affect adversely U.S.
foreign relations.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0173 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1725EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-AIDSEstimates     07-19 0636</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-AIDS Estimates,0651</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>City Revises Number of AIDS-Infected People</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JUDIE GLAVE</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Armed with data which may change national
estimates of the scope of the AIDS epidemic, city health officials
said Tuesday that 200,000 residents are infected with the virus _
half as many as they had estimated earlier.
   However, city Health Commissioner Dr. Stephen Joseph said the
lower figure does not mean there will be fewer AIDS cases than had
been projected. And he said there should be no reduction in funding
to fight the disease.
   Joseph said he informed the Centers for Disease Control in
Atlanta of the city's revision Tuesday morning. ``Since New York
represents 23 percent of the AIDS cases nationally, if they accept
our methodology it will make some changes in their estimates.''
   The CDC, which based its estimates on the same data used
previously by New York, estimates that 1 million to 1.5 million
Americans are infected with the HIV virus.
   ``It's really too early to tell if it will affect our figures,''
said CDC spokesman Charles Fallis. ``At this point, we're sticking
with what we originally said.''
   The revision in the New York City estimates came just two months
after the city released a five-year master plan based on the old
figure. The city plans to spend $334 million in AIDS prevention,
education and services this year.
   ``It would really be a mistake for anybody or any group to take
these figures and say because of that we can do less or because of
that we can do differently,'' Joseph said at a news conference.
   ``The new estimate today will not affect at all expenditures
either in prevention or in services,'' he said.
   The city estimates there will be 43,000 AIDS cases in New York
by 1991. Joseph said that figure was ``based on trends of past and
current AIDS cases which we are quite confident are accurate.''
   The same cannot be said of the number of people infected with
the HIV, or human immuno-deficiency virus. Joseph said that figure
always has been ``just an estimate ... and one that at times varies
widely.''
   The new figure for the number of New Yorkers believed to be
infected with HIV is based on recent studies in San Francisco on
the number of HIV-infected homosexuals there. Joseph said it is
assumed that the rate of infection is similar in the two cities.
   There are 7,499 gay men in New York City with AIDS and 4,071 in
San Francisco. Using that ratio and data that estimates there are
27,517 homosexual and bisexual men infected with the HIV virus in
San Francisco, officials theorize there are an estimated 50,000
HIV-infected gay men in New York City, rather than the previously
estimated 200,000 to 250,000.
   The number is significant because most health officials now
agree that nearly all of those carrying the HIV virus will get AIDS.
   The higher figures, which the city has been using for nearly
three years, are based on decades-old data from the reserach of
Alfred Charles Kinsey that estimated that one out of 10 men engaged
in homosexual behavior, and on sample surveys indicating that there
was a 50 percent HIV infection rate among homosexual men.
   Joseph said the San Francisco data were considered more valid
than old data because ``they are based on a much smaller, tighter,
more homogeneous situation.'' In addition, he said, San Francisco
is ``further ahead in seroprevalence data than anywhere else in the
country.''
   Seroprevalence data is based on blood tests that accurately show
how many people are infected with the HIV virus.
   The number of intravenous drug users believed to be carrying the
HIV virus is unchanged. ``We continue to estimate approximately
100,000 HIV-infected people among the city's approximately 200,000
IV drug users,'' said Joseph.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0174 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1829EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-AlcoholTests     07-19 0333</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Alcohol Tests,0343</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Judges Say Machine Results Illegal; 1,200 Drunk-Driving Cases
Imperiled</HEAD>
<DATELINE>ORLANDO, Fla. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A judicial panel invalidated the results of
five alcohol breath-testing machines, casting doubt on more than
1,200 drunken driving arrests made over the last two years.
   Orange County's six traffic judges ruled Monday that a state
agency violated the law by not testing and re-certifying the
machines after they were sent back to the manufacturer for
modifications two years ago.
   About 4,400 people have been arrested on drunken driving charges
in the county in each of the last two years, but the unusual mass
challenge by defense lawyers only covered undecided cases.
   Prosecutors and defense attorneys disagree on how much the
ruling will hurt the more than 1,200 outstanding cases.
   Assistant State Attorney Pam Smith had said earlier that the
state could use other evidence such as videotapes, field sobriety
tests and officers' testimony in many of the cases.
   But Stuart Hyman, one of two defense attorneys to argue the case
last week, said the machines were crucial to most cases.
   ``Unless a guy is falling-down drunk on a videotape, they (the
prosecution) are hurting,'' he said. ``It's one of their big pieces
of evidence.''
   Hyman predicted the state would be forced to allow many
defendants to plead guilty to reduced reckless driving charges, or
that many more cases would go to trial.
   Sheriff's attorney Bill Vose said he did not expect the
sheriff's office to stop using the machines. ``I would expect that
we would keep testing and ask the state to expedite its
certification procedure,'' he said.
   But Hyman said, ``If they go out tonight and start testing
people, it's unapproved.''
   The state Health and Rehabilitative Services Department
certified the Intoxilyzer 5000 machine for use in 1984, according
to testimony at last week's hearing. About 60 are in use around the
state, and similar challenges have been filed in other counties.
   However, the Orange County ruling is not binding on cases in
other counties.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0175 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1833EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p EarlyConventionOpeningFoiledbyAbsentSpeakers     07-19
0198</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>Early Convention Opening Foiled by Absent Speakers</2ND_LINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Democratic National Convention was supposed
to open early Tuesday to allow for protracted debate on the
platform. But when the starting time came, the speakers weren't
there.
   As a result, the session opened only four minutes ahead of
schedule, at 4:11 p.m.
   ``Unfortunately, some of those members who desire and deserve be
heard on these issues have not been able to arrive at this time,''
said chairman Jim Wright at 3 p.m.
   In the next hour, he suggested twice that anyone who wanted to
address platform issues could come up to the podium microphone and
do so. Nobody took him up on it.
   He assured the convention that there would be no vote before the
original starting time, so that no advocate could steal a march on
opponents.
   Convention officials, with the concurrence of the Michael
Dukakis and Jesse Jackson camps, had decided earlier in the day to
open at 3 p.m. to accommodate what Wright called ``an ad hoc
discussion.''
   The hall was only one-third full when Wright made his first
announcement. By starting time, about three-fourths of the
delegates were in their seats.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0176 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1748EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-BankFire 1stLd-Writethru a0725 07-19 0513</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Bank Fire, 1st Ld - Writethru, a0725,0523</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Skyscraper Blaze Blamed On Refinishing Chemicals</HEAD>
<NOTE>EDS: SUBS graf 5, `The flames...' with 2 grafs to update with
report of injury to one worker and update damage estimate to
$500,000; picks up graf 6, `Officials said...'</NOTE>
<HEAD>LaserPhoto LA1</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JEFF WILSON</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>LOS ANGELES (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Vapors from chemicals being used in a
furniture refinishing project caused the fire that gutted two
office suites in the 38-story Union Bank building, fire officials
said Tuesday.
   ``It was accidental,'' said Fire Department spokesman Jim Wells.
``Chemical vapors made contact with an electrical outlet,'' causing
a flash fire.
   Monday night's blaze was a haunting reminder of the May 4 fire
that killed one man and ravaged five floors of the city's tallest
building, the 62-story First Interstate Bank building.
   There were no deaths in the Union Bank fire, but two of the 150
firefighters called to battle flames on the 34th and 35th floors
were treated by paramedics for exhaustion and heat.
   A worker who was refinishing a bookcase on the 34th floor
sustained minor burns, said Fire Chief Donald O. Manning.
   The flames destroyed two office suites and caused slight damage
to the surrounding area, causing $500,000 damage, officials said.
   Officials said lessons learned in fighting the earlier fire
helped fight Monday night's blaze, even though the Union Bank
building, like First Interstate, has no fire extinguishers.
   Manning said the fire was put out in less than 45 minutes
because the alarm was sounded quickly. Also, water was available
and better communications were set up.
   In the First Interstate fire, radios between fire floors and
command officials outside failed to work, but new, more powerful
radios prevented a communication problem Monday night.
   The Union Bank blaze gave new impetus to the move to hasten
implementation of a law requiring sprinklers in high-rises. The
Union Bank tower was built in 1966, prior to the 1974 city
ordinance requiring sprinklers.
   Last Friday, the City Council voted to mandate sprinklers within
four years in 343 pre-1974 high-rises, and sprinklers were actually
in the process of being installed at Union Bank.
   ``It is unconscionable to build high-rises without sprinklers in
them,'' Councilman Marvin Braude said after the Monday blaze.
Councilman Nate Holden agreed, saying ``dragging our feet has
already caused two major fires in L.A.''
   Eighty-three people in the Union Bank building escaped down
stairwells. Most tenants were back inside on Tuesday and operations
were described as normal by bank officials.
   ``I was jumping three steps at a time,'' said Bradley Franks, an
asbestos removal worker who was on the 28th floor when he heard an
evacuation call over the building intercom.
   ``A few people were following and some stumbled and fell. I was
on the 16th floor when I saw firefighters coming up the stairs.''
   Firefighters lugged hoses and others carried equipment weighing
up to 100 pounds up 34 flights of stairs.
   At midnight, the building changed ownership: The Union Bank
tower became property of California First Bank, which acquired
Union Bank in a $750 million transaction.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0177 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1750EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p AM-CVN--Vendors     07-19 0479</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-CVN--Vendors,480</2ND_LINE>
<BYLINE>By JILL LAWRENCE</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Dozens of vendors who paid up to $1,500 for
booths at the Democratic National Convention held a news conference
Tuesday to protest their locations in an exhibit hall far away from
foot traffic in the World Congress Center.
   ``We were told 40,000 to 50,000 people would be coming
downstairs. They don't even know we're here,'' said Dr. Penny Rich,
a California physician trying to sell copies of a book she wrote
about drug abuse.
   She and others demanded refunds and said they should be moved to
high-traffic areas in other parts of the sprawling complex across
from The Omni convention hall.
   Mark Weiner, marketing manager of the convention, said vendors
would be offered full refunds if they wanted to leave or 50 percent
refunds if they wanted to move to a more centrally located ballroom.
   Weiner, president of a Cranston, R.I., company called Financial
Innovations, said there were about 180 booths at the convention,
with some companies operating more than one. Licenses cost from
$750 to $1,500 per booth.
   Weiner said he ``never made any guarantees about how many
people'' would find their way to exhibit hall, which is in the
basement of the building in a different wing from the press and
Democratic party operations.
   Don Fowler, chief executive officer of the convention, issued a
statement saying the party would try to encourage delegates and
guests to purchase souvenirs from small-business vendors in the
exhibit hall. ``The party will do everything possible to publicize
their location and also relocate some vendors to areas... that are
heavily trafficked,'' Fowler said
   A member of the Democratic National Committee from West
Virginia, who didn't identify himself, told the protesting vendors
he was sure other DNC members would sympathize with their plight.
``I knew you were there _ it took me over an hour to find you last
night,'' he said.
   Rich said she had sold three copies of ``The Cracked Pipe,'' her
book, at $5 apiece, since the convention began. ``It cost me $500
to get them printed,'' she said.
   The vendors said they were losing up to $1,000 a day in expenses
and charged that Weiner, who gets a cut of whatever they make, set
aside 10 souvenir booths for himself in the most heavily traveled
part of the World Congress Center.
   Weiner said those booths are operated jointly by his company and
Atlanta '88, the city's convention host committee. ``We have always
told everyone that we would have official booths at the congress
center and around town,'' he said.
   A labor dispute may be an embarrassment to the Democrats, but at
least one vendor said she disagreed with a protestor's threats to
vote Republican this fall.
   ``It wouldn't make me vote for George Bush,'' said cartoonist
Susan Denison of Orlando, Fla. ``That would be a little drastic.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0178 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1836EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-Afghanistan     07-19 0490</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Afghanistan,0503</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Rockets Kill 15 in Kabul</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: One name for Najib is cq.</NOTE>
<DATELINE>ISLAMABAD, Pakistan (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Afghan guerrillas fired 15 rockets
into a residential area of Kabul on Tuesday, killing 11 people,
wounding 23 and destroying several homes, Afghanistan's state radio
reported.
   Before the report Tuesday, the Communist government of
Afghanistan said 165 rockets had hit Kabul and other cities since
May 15, when Soviet troops began withdrawing under an agreement
mediated by the United Nations.
   Most attacks have been aimed at the capital, where the
government of President Najib said rockets killed 20 people Friday.
   Moslem guerrillas began fighting in Afghanistan after a
Communist coup in April 1978 and Soviet military forces entered the
country in December 1979. Under the April 14 Geneva agreement, the
estimated 115,000 Soviet soldiers in Afghanistan are to be out by
Feb. 15, 1989.
   The insurgents, most of whom are based in Pakistan, deny firing
rockets into residential areas. Abdul Haq, a commander with the
Hezb-i-Islami guerrilla group led by Younis Khalis, said their
targets in Kabul are military installations, the Soviet Embassy and
the airport.
   Haq claimed most rockets that hit civilians are fired by the
Soviets or government forces in an attempt to discredit the
insurgents.
   Kabul radio said the government had lodged its 53rd complaint
with the U.N. observer team, accusing Pakistan, Afghanistan's
eastern neighbor, of violating the Geneva accord.
   More than 5 million Afghans _ about one-third of the population
_ have fled their country in a decade of civil war. At least 3
million live in camps and cities along the frontier with Pakistan
that serve as bases and supply points for the guerrillas.
   Pakistan and Afghanistan signed the agreement. It is guaranteed
by the Soviet Union and the United States, which supports the
insurgents. The guerrillas were not a party to it and have
continued fighting.
   Western diplomats in Islamabad, speaking on condition of
anonymity, said recent bombing raids by the Afghan air force in the
south killed 70 villagers and 16 insurgents.
   They reported heavy fighting in the Kandahar area of southern
Afghanistan and said guerrillas claimed to have overrun the
garrison town of Shahr-i-Safa, 35 miles north of Kandahar on the
strategic highway to Kabul, last Friday.
   The diplomats gave these reports of activity in eastern
Aghanistan:
   No supply convoys have reached the besieged city of Asmar in the
northeastern Kunar province since one got through in mid-June from
Jalalabad, 70 miles to the south.
   Most civilians have abandoned the Asmar area at the northern
edge of the Kunar Valley, scene of heavy fighting in July, and the
provincial capital Asadabad, 18 miles to the south, may fall soon.
   Guerrilla positions in the mountains above the Kunar Valley make
resupply by air difficult and soldiers in Urgun, 18 miles from the
Pakistan border, receive air drops only at night. The same system
is used at the besieged city of Khost in Paktia province.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0179 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1751EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p AM-CVN--OpeningDelay     07-19 0206</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-CVN--Opening Delay,200</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Early Convention Opening Foiled by Absent Speakers</HEAD>
<HEAD>Retransmitting a0744 to include dropped keyword</HEAD>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Democratic National Convention was supposed
to open early Tuesday to allow for protracted debate on the
platform. But when the starting time came, the speakers weren't
there.
   As a result, the session opened only four minutes ahead of
schedule, at 4:11 p.m.
   ``Unfortunately, some of those members who desire and deserve be
heard on these issues have not been able to arrive at this time,''
said chairman Jim Wright at 3 p.m.
   In the next hour, he suggested twice that anyone who wanted to
address platform issues could come up to the podium microphone and
do so. Nobody took him up on it.
   He assured the convention that there would be no vote before the
original starting time, so that no advocate could steal a march on
opponents.
   Convention officials, with the concurrence of the Michael
Dukakis and Jesse Jackson camps, had decided earlier in the day to
open at 3 p.m. to accommodate what Wright called ``an ad hoc
discussion.''
   The hall was only one-third full when Wright made his first
announcement. By starting time, about three-fourths of the
delegates were in their seats.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0180 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1752EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-HelicopterExplosion     07-19 0633</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Helicopter Explosion,0653</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Navy Begins Investigation of Crash</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Anderton is cq in 4th graf</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By CATALINA ORTIZ</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>SAN FRANCISCO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Searchers found no sign of eight missing
Navy helicopter crew members on Tuesday, more than 24 hours after
their Sea Dragon crashed outside the Golden Gate.
   A five-member investigation board began going over pieces from
the MH-53E Sea Dragon, which went down during a mine-sweeping
exercise on Monday.
   The wreckage was recovered by Coast Guard cutters searching for
debris and survivors, though officials said there was virtually no
hope left for the crew.
   ``Yesterday (Monday) afternoon they were searching about 10
square miles, and today they'll expand the search, going farther
out because of the wind and currents,'' said Coast Guard Petty
Officer Dave Anderton.
   Although the Coast Guard said Monday it expected to find no
survivors, Anderton said the search would continue as long as there
was a chance anyone was alive.
   Navy divers were preparing to explore the chilly, 60-foot-deep
water 11 miles west of the Golden Gate for wreckage of the
helicopter, one of four MH-53E aircraft based at the Alameda Naval
Air Station on the east side of San Francisco Bay.
   The aircraft is a mine-sweeping version of the CH-53E Super
Stallion, a cargo and troop-carrying chopper that twice has been
the object of congressional inquiries.
   Twenty servicemen have died in previous crashes of CH-53E
copters, according to Andrew Lightbody, editorial director for
International Defense Images Magazine in Irvine.
   Louis Franecke, a San Francisco lawyer representing families of
service people killed in crashes of the 53E helicopters, said in
Tuesday's editions of the San Francisco Examiner that family
members have told him crewmen are often asked to sign legal waivers
``before they go up.''
   A Navy spokesman in Washington, D.C., said the allegation was
``absolutely false.'' Lt. Bruce Cole also said crewmen are not
asked to sign waivers before going up in any kind of helicopter.
   Lt. Elizabeth Kerstens, a spokewoman for the Marine Corps, which
also uses 53E helicopters, said there was no such requirement.
   The captain of the salmon-fishing boat Lovely Martha said he
heard two distinct explosions several moments after he saw three
puffs of smoke rise over the fog bank.
   ``There was a tremendous explosion. There were a lot of pieces
of the helicopter .... pontoons, wheels, all kinds of things
floating around. It was total annihilation,'' skipper Frank Rescino
said.
   The captain of another fishing boat, Northern Light, said the
noises didn't sound like a fire or fuel explosion.
   ``It sounded like it hit and bounced and then hit again,'' said
skipper Jim Koskela. ``I called it impact, it wasn't an explosion.
Like wood hitting water, just magnified.''
   Navy spokesman Valente would not confirm or deny whether there
were explosions, saying it could be detrimental to the
investigation.
   In February 1987, the Navy and Marine Corps grounded all CH-53E
and MH-53E helicopters. Cole said all those models were inspected
because of problems with part of the power train and then returned
to operation.
   Cole said the helicopters, described as the largest in the
Western world, did not have an ``abnormally high'' accident record.
   The Orange County Register, using documents obtained through the
Freedom of Information Act, reported in 1987 that in its first five
years of service, the CH-53E had the worst safety record of any
helicopter in the Navy or Marine Corps.
   Last May, the House Armed Services Committee began a special
inquiry into the aircraft at the request of Rep. Robert Badham,
R-Calif.
   Badham said Monday the investigation showed ``there is no
inherent design or mechanical flaw in the manufacture or design.''
The investigation found that the accidents were caused by pilot
error or a broken piece of equipment not common to the crashes,
Badham said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0181 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1849EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w AM-Drought-Bankers     07-19 0228</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Drought-Bankers,210</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Bank Group Says It Supports Drought-Aid Legislation</HEAD>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A major association of country banks said
Tuesday it supports drought-aid legislation in Congress that would
pour up to $7 billion into stricken areas to help farmers recover
from crop and livestock losses.
   The Independent Bankers Association of America, which says that
half its members are agricultural banks, sent letters to members of
the Senate and House agricultural committees in support of bills
awaiting final action when Congress returns to work on July 26.
   A version approved by the Senate committee would provide
payments of up to $100,000 to drought-stricken farmers. President
Reagan has indicated he would sign such legislation.
   Association President-elect O. Jay Tomson, Charles City, Iowa,
said a special committee concluded that ``the legislation deserves
our full support and prompt enactment.''
   The legislation would replace a major portion of the income lost
by crop farmers in 1988 due to heat and drought by reallocating
money that would otherwise have gone to farmers as ``deficiency''
payments to compensate them for low commodity prices.
   Drought has cut production and forced up prices, meaning the
payments will be less. Thus, the ``savings'' would be used to
finance the drought benefits.
   In addition, livestock, dairy and poultry producers would be
provided financial aid to help cover higher feed costs and help
them keep their foundation stock.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0182 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1735EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u a AM-ShootingSpree 1stLd-Writethru a0679 07-19 0555</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Shooting Spree, 1st Ld - Writethru, a0679,0564</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Different Stories On Attempts To Commit Hayes</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: LEADS with two grafs to CORRECT that Hayes is accused of four
murders, but formally charged with two; picks up graf 3, ``Sheriff
Preston</NOTE>
<TEXT>
   WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. (AP) _ The stepfather of a man accused of
four murders said the family tried to have Michael Charles Hayes
committed to a mental hospital, but were told by a sheriff's
officer to wait until Monday.
   ``It seems to me, Monday was a little bit late,'' said Garris
Edwards. His stepson, Hayes, is accused of killing four people and
wounding five others in a roaming, 12-minute shooting spree on
Sunday. So far, Hayes has been charged with two counts of
first-degree murder.
   Sheriff Preston Oldham refused comment Tuesday, pending
completion of the investigation.
   Hayes was shot and critically wounded after allegedly opening
fire on sheriff's deputies.
   Edwards said Monday that family members also tried to have Hayes
committed when he was taken to a hospital earlier Saturday. Hayes
reportedly injured his hand beating a wall.
   However, Roger Rollman, a spokesman for North Carolina Baptist
Hospital, said Tuesday that there was no apparent effort to seek
involuntary commitment for Hayes. Rollman said he interviewed all
medical personnel who came in contact with Hayes and his stepfather
Saturday night.
   Rollman said Hayes came to the hospital Saturday night with a
finger injury on the left hand. About an hour later, Rollman said,
``he left the emergency room against medical advice and without
getting his finger treated. There was no indication in the record
that anything was said about having the man committed.
   ``It is routine for us in the course of a year to have people
come in and say they need to have someone committed on an
involuntary basis,'' Rollman said.
   Friends and family of Hayes told The Dispatch of Lexington that
his behavior had changed drastically several days before the
shootings.
   Hayes, who had been living in a trailer, had financial and
personal troubles, friends told the newspaper. He moved into his
moped shop about a week ago after he and his wife, who is nine
months pregnant, separated.
   Edwards told WSJS-WTQR radio on Monday that he had told hospital
workers Saturday that Hayes had ``cracked up and lost it,'' but
they declined to commit him.
   Edwards said he also talked to a lieutenant at the Forsyth
County Sheriff's Department on Sunday morning, and was told the
commitment process would take eight hours. The lieutenant told
Hayes' family members that the commitment could wait until Monday,
according to Edwards.
   Rollman said to begin the process for involuntary commitment, a
person would undergo a psychiatric examination, followed by
paperwork detailing the results. A clerk of court would review and
then sign papers if commitment was deemed appropriate.
   Sheriff's deputies would pick up the person to be committed and
take him to the specific facility, Rollman said.
   Hayes, who was shot six times in the back, groin and leg, was
listed in critical condition Tuesday. A hospital spokesman said the
chances for his recovery was good.
   The dead were Thomas Walter Nicholson, 24, of Winston-Salem;
Crystal Susan Cantrell, 16, of Winston-Salem; Ronald Lee Hull, 32,
of Winston-Salem, and Melinda Yvonne Hayes, 21, of Lexington.
Oldham said Miss Hayes was not a relative of Hayes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0183 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1743EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i AM-HamadiTrial     07-19 0665</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Hamadi Trial,0686</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Hamadi Denounces U.S. and Israel, Refuses Answer On Bombs</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By NESHA STARCEVIC</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>FRANKFURT, West Germany (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A Lebanese man on trial for the
1985 hijacking of a TWA jetliner refused to say Tuesday if bombs
seized during his arrest were for terrorist attacks and instead
denounced the United States and Israel.
   Mohammed Ali Hamadi's rambling denunciation was interrupted by
Chief Judge Heiner Mueckenberger, who adjourned the session.
Hamadi, in a loud, agitated voice, said he would no longer take
part in his trial.
   The hijackers seized the plane in June 1985, held 39 Americans
captive in Beirut for 17 days, and killed U.S. Navy diver Robert
Stethem.
   Scheduled to testify Wednesday is Hamadi's older brother, Abbas,
who was convicted of kidnapping two West Germans in Lebanon.
   Abbas Hamadi was arrested Jan. 26, 1987 at Frankfurt Airport
after returning to West Germany following the kidnappings of West
Germans Rudolf Cordes and Alfred Schmidt. Schmidt was freed in
September, but Cordes remains a hostage.
   As the trial entered its third week, court officials questioned
Hamadi about a telephone notebook found on him when he was arrested
also at Frankfurt Airport on Jan. 13, 1987.
   The officials said one of the names in the notebook sounded
similar to one of the other three alleged hijackers. Mueckenberger
indicated without elaboration that some of the names may have a
connection to bombs or bombings in France.
   The court also heard testimony from two customs officials and
three police experts, who described the explosives found in
Hamadi's baggage when he was arrested in a random check.
   As the day's session neared its scheduled end, Hamadi asked that
he be allowed to read a statement which he said would explain his
motives for smuggling explosives into West Germany.
   ``It was an evil deed and I condemn it,'' he said, speaking in
Arabic through an interpreter. ``I condemn the link brought in this
court of these explosives with France.''
   Under questioning, he refused to say if he knew whether the
explosives he was carrying were to be used in terrorist attacks.
   Then Hamadi began to give a rambling condemnation of the United
States and Israel, mentioning what he called the ``interference of
the United States for many years,'' and citing Hiroshima and
Vietnam.
   At that point, Mueckenberger interrupted Hamadi, saying: ``The
court is not the place to hear world history.''
   Hamadi's defense lawyers objected and the judge allowed Hamadi
to continue.
   Reading loudly from a written statement, Hamadi went on to call
the United States Israel's greatest ally, ``whose military and
political support for Israel is growing.'' He said Israel ``killed
tens of thousands of my Lebanese countrymen and destroyed hundreds
of homes.''
   After Hamadi began to criticize the United States for shooting
down an Iran Air Airbus earlier this month, the judge again
interrupted, saying he wanted to adjourn the trial.
   ``I see that it is forbidden for me to read my statement. I see
that I am being treated as a criminal and not as political ...''
Hamadi said, breaking off the sentence as the judge formally closed
the session.
   Hamadi, speaking in a very agitated voice, then said he would
refuse to give any more testimony.
   Earlier Tuesday, lawyer Rainer Hamm said TWA pilot John L.
Testrake of Richmond, Mo., chief flight attendant Uli Derickson,
and flight engineer Benjamin Zimmermann of Cascade, Idaho, had
joined in the prosecution. None of the three was present Tuesday.
   The procedure is common practice in West German criminal trials.
Those permitted to intervene in the case are allowed to ask
questions during the trial and raise objections, much the same as
prosecutors. The procedure also gives them the right to appeal if
they are unsatisfied with the verdict.
   Miss Derickson is credited with preventing any more passengers
from being killed by talking to the hijackers and diverting their
attention.
   Hamm is representing 11 Americans, including Stethem's parents
and former hostages, who have joined in the prosecution.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0184 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1905EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p AM-CVN--Dukakis-Pepper     07-19 0333</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-CVN--Dukakis-Pepper,330</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Seniors Rally For Long-Term Care</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By DAN SEWELL</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Michael Dukakis' 84-year-old mother and Rep.
Claude Pepper, the oldest member of Congress, led senior citizens
in a rally Tuesday for long-term health-care legislation that
Pepper promises to make a national campaign issue.
   ``Unfortunately, our present administration has wanted to do as
little with government applied to people's needs as possible. That
is not what Michael Dukakis is going to do,'' said Euterpe Dukakis.
   Mrs. Dukakis, who said she had required home care three times
herself, predicted that if her son is elected president he would
push for passage of legislation for long-term care, sponsored by
Pepper, that failed in the House this year.
   Pepper, 87, the Miami Democrat who's attending his 13th
convention _ he gave a nominating speech for Franklin D. Roosevelt
at the 1940 national convention _ recounted how his bill was
defeated because of concerns over its costs and a jurisidictional
battle among committee chairmen.
   ``Of course, they're going to have answer to the people this
fall, those who voted callously against the needy American
people,'' said Pepper. He has no opposition for re-election to the
House this year and plans to campaign nationally for his
health-care bill.
   The bill, estimated to cost $27 billion in its first five years,
would provide federally assisted home health care to the
chronically ill of all ages. It would be funded by requiring about
8 million workers who make more than $45,000 a year to pay Medicare
taxes on all their wages _ not just the first $45,000, as under
present law.
   Accompanying Pepper and Mrs. Dukakis at the news conference were
two 5-year-old Atlanta children who would benefit from such
legislation. They were Michael Perry, who has been comatose since
nearly drowning more than a year ago, and Coley Cooper, who
suffered brain damage in a near-drowning two years ago.
   ``I can't believe the heart of America is unconcerned about
these children,'' Pepper said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0185 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1805EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u p AM-CVN--Kitty-Asians     07-19 0317</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-CVN--Kitty-Asians,300</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Kitty Speaks Of Refugee Work At Brunch With Asian-American Group</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JOHN KING</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Kitty Dukakis, a passionate advocate of aid to
refugees, told Asian-American delegates Tuesday that she and her
husband would continue those efforts in the White House.
   ``Michael Dukakis is committed to opportunity for all
Americans,'' the wife of the Democratic presidential nominee-to-be
said in brief remarks at a brunch near the hall where Democrats are
holding their national convention.
   ``When our ancestors, like many of yours, arrived in America,
this country gave them something and they in return gave back,''
Mrs. Dukakis said.
   She gave an emotional description of her several visits to
refugee camps along the Thailand-Cambodia border, including a 1985
trip after which she won the release of a young boy whose sister
lived in Massachusetts.
   The boy, Hout Pich, graduated from high school last month and is
headed to Brandeis University on a full scholarship in the fall,
Mrs. Dukakis said.
   ``Whatever happiness I hear about Hout Pich, I have a sense of
sadness for the thousands of others like Pich who are suffering,''
Mrs. Dukakis said. ``None of us can rest until they have the
opportunity to fulfill their dreams.''
   Two Asian-American congressman at the brunch, California Reps.
Norman Mineta and Richard T. Matsui, praised Mrs. Dukakis for her
refugee work and urged the delegates to work for a Democratic
victory in November.
   Matsui said polls have shown Dukakis and designated running
mate, Texas Sen. Lloyd Bentsen, in a position to defeat Republican
George Bush in the key states of California, Illinois, New York and
Texas. Those states, he said, also have the four largest
Asian-American populations in the country.
   ``The Asian-American community will be tested in this
election,'' Matsui said. ``You may help make the difference in this
election. You may help elect the next president of the United
States.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0186 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1907EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-WomanAbducted     07-19 0247</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Woman Abducted,0253</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Kidnap Suspect Charged With Homicide</HEAD>
<DATELINE>ERIE, Pa. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A charge of criminal homicide was lodged
Tuesday against a small town bookstore operator already charged
with kidnapping and related counts in the abduction and slaying of
a banker's wife.
   David C. Copenhefer, 41, of Corry was arraigned before Erie
County Judge William Pfadt.
   Copenhefer is accused of abducting Sally Weiner on June 17,
trying to extort money from her husband, Pennbank branch manager
Harry Weiner, then shooting the woman in the back of the head.
   Mrs. Weiner's body was found June 19 in a field outside Corry in
northwestern Pennsylvania. Copenhefer was charged with kidnapping
the following day.
   The criminal homicide charge was delayed while investigators
conducted ballistics tests and developed other evidence.
   At a news conference, state police said they have not ruled out
the possibility others were involved in the abduction.
   An affidavit distributed by District Attorney Rusty Cunningham
says the evidence against Copenhefer includes a handwritten version
of a computer-generated extortion note left for Weiner to retrieve.
The handwritten note carried Copenhefer's fingerprints and was
found in garbage left behind his shop, Corry Books & Cards, the
affidavit said.
   It also alleged that tire prints were matched to Copenhefer's
vehicle, that lab tests showed that a fragmentation bullet that
killed Mrs. Weiner could have been fired from one of several guns
in Copenhefer's home, and that duct tape found on the victim's head
matched a roll in the suspect's home.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0187 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1807EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u p AM-CVN--OpeningConfusion     07-19 0206</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-CVN--Opening Confusion,210</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>RETRANSMITTING a0744 to restore keyword line</HEAD>
<HEAD>Early Convention Opening Foiled by Absent Speakers</HEAD>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Democratic National Convention was supposed
to open early Tuesday to allow for protracted debate on the
platform. But when the starting time came, the speakers weren't
there.
   As a result, the session opened only four minutes ahead of
schedule, at 4:11 p.m.
   ``Unfortunately, some of those members who desire and deserve be
heard on these issues have not been able to arrive at this time,''
said chairman Jim Wright at 3 p.m.
   In the next hour, he suggested twice that anyone who wanted to
address platform issues could come up to the podium microphone and
do so. Nobody took him up on it.
   He assured the convention that there would be no vote before the
original starting time, so that no advocate could steal a march on
opponents.
   Convention officials, with the concurrence of the Michael
Dukakis and Jesse Jackson camps, had decided earlier in the day to
open at 3 p.m. to accommodate what Wright called ``an ad hoc
discussion.''
   The hall was only one-third full when Wright made his first
announcement. By starting time, about three-fourths of the
delegates were in their seats.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0188 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1939EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-EGermany-US     07-19 0234</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-EGermany-US,0240</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>U.S. Nuclear Missile Inspection Teams in East Germany</HEAD>
<HEAD>With AM-Britain-US-Soviets</HEAD>
<DATELINE>BERLIN (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   U.S officials are in East Germany inspecting
nuclear missile sites in compliance with the superpowers'
Intermediate Nuclear Forces treaty, the state-run news agency ADN
said Tuesday.
   ADN, in a brief report, said that two U.S. inspection teams
arrived in East Germany on Monday. One team began checking a
missile site near the town of Waren, about 70 miles north of Berlin
the same day.
   The East German news agency also said the other U.S. inspection
team started checking a second site Tuesday at Koenigsbrueck, about
15 miles north of Dresden.
   According to ADN, the Soviets maintained missiles at the sites
until February, when they decided to remove them early to set a
positive example in nuclear disarmament.
   The inspections in East Germany come as two teams of Soviet
inspectors checked nuclear missile sites in Britain, which also
fall under the INF agreement.
   Soviet teams have already conducted inspections at missile sites
in West Germany and the United States this month, at the same time
U.S. inspection teams began deploying to Warsaw Pact locations.
   The inspections fall under the terms of the INF treaty signed in
Washington last Dec. 8 by Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev and
President Reagan.
   The treaty provides for the elimination within three years of
all nuclear missiles with ranges from 340 miles to 3,000 miles.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0189 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1943EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-Powell 1stLd-Writethru a0671 07-19 0699</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Powell, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0671,630</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Powell Sees `Latent Crisis' In Central America</HEAD>
<NOTE>EDs: RETRANSMITS a0770 to note that it is a 1st Ld-Writethru; SUBS
2nd and 3rd grafs to UPDATE with speech being given and to show
that this was rare speaking appearance; INSERTS 5 grafs after 4th
graf, `But recent,' with Powell's response to questions on Persian
Gulf</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By W. DALE NELSON</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>LOS ANGELES (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The next president likely will face
``accelerating deterioration'' of stability in Central America
unless U.S. policy-makers find a consensus on helping the
Nicaraguan rebels, President Reagan's national security adviser
said Tuesday.
   In a rare speaking appearance, Lt. Gen. Colin D. Powell told a
foreign affairs audience that the battle over Nicaraguan policy in
the United States is reminiscent of divisiveness in the Vietnam War
era. He called Central America ``an area of latent crisis.''
   In a speech to the Los Angeles World Affairs Council, Powell
said that ``when we are united _ as we have been in support of the
Afghan freedom fighters, or of a solid NATO, or of a new basis for
U.S.-Soviet relations, or of a vital commitment in the (Persian)
gulf, we can achieve a great deal.''
   ``But recent history also teaches that when we are divided over
tactics _ as in Central America _ our policy suffers grievously and
our national interest does too,'' Powell said.
   In answering questions after his speech, Powell said that he is
encouraged by Iran's announcement Monday that it would accept a
U.N. cease-fire resolution in its 8-year-old war with Iraq.
   ``It is a breakthrough, in my judgment, but it is only a first
step,'' Powell said in answer to questions from the council. ``The
war goes on. It goes on right now, today.''
   Asked if the U.S. naval presence would be withdrawn from the
Persian Gulf if the cease-fire does stick, Powell said it did not.
   ``We have had vessels in the Persian Gulf since 1949,'' he said.
``Because of the importance of that waterway and because of our
strategic interest in the region, I do not see us ever removing our
forces from the Persian Gulf.''
   He added that if there were no longer threats to neutral
shipping in the gulf, ``we could review our force structure and
adjust it accordingly.''
   Powell's comments on Central America came in the wake of actions
by Col. Enrique Bermudez to consolidate leadership of the Contra
rebel force, and renewed diplomatic tensions between the United
States and Nicaragua, who have expelled several of each other's
envoys.
   The administration has signaled that it supports a bill
introduced by Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan., which, among
other things, would include $20 million in military assistance to
be held in escrow for the president's use against the Sandinista
regime in Managua.
   In his speech, Powell said that ``unless Congress and the
president ... come to agreement on a program of effective aid for
the Nicaraguan resistance as an adjunct to our diplomatic strategy,
the next president will probably face a situation of accelerating
deterioration, as all the local democracies will come under growing
strains as Nicaragua grows stronger, more assertive and more
aggressive.''
   ``Last week, you all saw the reaction of the Sandinista regime
to legitimate political protest,'' Powell said, referring to the
shutdowns of a newspaper and radio station and the expulsion of
American Ambassador Richard Melton, who was accused of engaging in
activities undermining the state.
   ``Can there be any further doubt about the totalitarian nature
of the ruling junta in Managua?'' Powell asked.
   On other subjects, the national security adviser said:
   _The administration has recovered from the ``aberration of
Iran-Contra.''
   Powell said administration officials are working harder to keep
members of Congress informed of sensitive national security matters.
   _He plans to return to active duty in the Army when Reagan's
term ends next January.
   ``I expect to go back to a nice quiet foxhole where I can serve
my country in a more comfortable and perhaps less exposed
position,'' he said.
   _The American people ``clearly do not want to see a repetition
of the period of military weakness that we went through in the wake
of the Vietnam War.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0190 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1818EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i AM-Britain-US-Soviets 1stLd-Writethru a0681 07-19 0697</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Britain-US-Soviets, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0681,0713</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Soviet Missile Inspector Says Superpowers Adhering To Treaty</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: SUBS 6th pvs, Lebedev said ... to CORRECT site of INF treaty
signing to Washington sted Moscow; pickup 7th graf pvs, The
experience ...</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By MAUREEN JOHNSON</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>GREENHAM COMMON, England (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A Soviet official said on
Tuesday that inspections in the United States and Europe show a
superpower treaty scrapping intermediate-range nuclear missiles is
being implemented without cheating.
   Vyacheslav S. Lebedev made the remark after he and 19 other
Soviet inspectors landed at this air force base to start counting
U.S. cruise missiles in Britain in accordance with the treaty.
   The Soviet inspectors arrived at Greenham Common, 50 miles west
of London, aboard a blue-and-white Aeroflot Ilyushin jet. They were
welcomed by a delegation of U.S. and British officers.
   Greenham Common is one of two U.S. cruise missile bases in
Britain. The other is at Molesworth, 50 miles north of London. Both
bases are run by U.S. Air Force personnel, but are technically
British Royal Air Force bases.
   The base has 96 operational missiles and five back-up missiles,
while there are another 16 operational missiles at Molesworth, the
U.S. military says.
   Lebedev said that, based on similar inspections this month in
the United States, the Soviet Union and West Germany, no one seemed
to be cheating on the terms of the Intermediate-range Nuclear
Forces treaty signed in Washington on Dec. 8 by Soviet leader
Mikhail Gorbachev and President Reagan.
   ``The experience of the inspections has shown that the U.S.S.R.
and United States strictly implemented the treaty signed by them
and the first steps as to its realization are successful,'' said
Lebedev.
   Soviet inspectors arrived in the United States July 16 to
inspect some of the 14 U.S. missile sites, training facilities and
industrial plants. These include Fort Sill in southwestern
Oklahoma, which has 37 Pershing 2 missiles and Redstone Arsenal in
Huntsville, Ala., home of the Army Missile Command that manages the
Pershing 1A and Pershing 2 nuclear missile programs.
   The treaty provides for the elimination within three years of
all nuclear missiles with ranges of 340 miles to 3,000 miles and
includes stringent inspection provisions to guard against cheating.
   At Greenham Common, a customs and immigration post was set up to
receive the Soviets and check the cameras, Geiger counters and
other equipment they were allowed to bring for the inspection.
   They are to stay at the base overnight in converted servicemen's
accommodations, and are to eat meals at a cafeteria on the base.
   Under the treaty, the inspectors may check the missiles and
their 55-foot mobile launchers _ which are to be taken back to the
United States and destroyed _ but not the warheads.
   The Soviets were to declare Wednesday exactly what they want to
see at the bases. They may also place security men at all entry and
exit roads to ensure no missiles are surreptitiously moved out, the
Defense Ministry said.
   ``We're entirely in the Soviets' hands,'' said Defense Ministry
spokesman Martin Helms. ``They will say where they want to go.''
   The inspectors, who will be flown to Molesworth from Greenham
Common, will not be allowed to step outside the bases during their
stay, which is expected to last up to 4{ days, or until the
inspection is completed.
   U.S. officers, mostly from an on-site inspection agency based in
West Germany, will accompany the Soviets as they examine the
missiles and launchers. Soviet inspectors first checked missiles in
Western Europe on July 1 at two West German sites housing
Pershing-2 rockets.
   The current inspections are part of a 60-day period of
``baseline inspections'' to determine the accuracy of data
exchanged by the two sides. The Soviets are visiting 30 sites in
the United States and Western Europe while U.S. inspectors are
visiting 133 Soviet sites.
   So far, no violations have been discovered, U.S. officials say,
and the inspections are about 25 percent complete.
   The Soviets notified the British of their visit on Monday,
officials said, under the 16-hour notice-of-inspection rule.
   In November 1983, Greenham Common was the first Western European
base to accept U.S. cruise missiles under a December 1979 NATO
alliance accord.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0191 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1945EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p AM-CVN--LaRouche     07-19 0319</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-CVN--LaRouche,330</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Extremist Gives ``Mild'' Speech to Maine Delegation</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By FRANCIS X. QUINN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Maine delegates to the Democratic National
Convention shrugged off a Tuesday visit by extremist Lyndon
LaRouche, with one terming his presentation ``a very mild speech _
mild for him.''
   Charles O'Leary, the president of the Maine AFL-CIO, said
delegation leaders had been asked to allow LaRouche's views to be
put before the caucus and had agreed.
   ``We were all waiting for some representative to come in, and he
came in himself,'' O'Leary said.
   Members of the group said LaRouche, who was sporting a beard,
spoke for less than five minutes and left after receiving little
response.
   LaRouche warned delegates that ``America's headed for another
depression,'' said Bill Meserve, the local president of striking
paperworkers at the International Paper Co. plant in Jay, Maine.
``They let him talk and get out.''
   O'Leary said the reaction among Maine Democrats ranged from
bemusement to shock. ``Everybody's jaw sort of dropped,'' he said.
   Another Maine delegate, John Martin, the speaker of the state
House of Representatives, said he had heard of similar requests
made of other delegations, but knew of no other appearances by
LaRouche himself.
   ``Other states just flatly refused to let him speak,'' said
Martin, ``but we're open. And he came and he spoke and he left.''
   LaRouche, who is running for president, espouses a variety of
bizarre views, advocating an effort to start settlements on Mars
and accusing the Queen of England of drug trafficking.
   He, along with six aides and five LaRouche organizations, has
been charged with conspiring to obstruct a federal grand jury
investigation into allegations that LaRouche's 1984 presidential
campaign reaped more than $2 million through credit card and loan
fraud.
   They went on trial in December 1887, but a mistrial was declared
in May in U.S. District Court in Boston. Prosecutors want to retry
the case.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0192 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1826EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u p AM-CVN--Reporter'sNotebook     07-19 0580</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-CVN--Reporter's Notebook,610</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Disappearing News Conferences, Demonstrations Mark Convention</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By HARRY F. ROSENTHAL</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Call it the case of the mystery press conference.
   A group of Democratic senators and congressmen scheduled a 1:30
p.m. press conference Tuesday to talk about the independent
prosecutor's report on Attorney General Edwin Meese III. The event
was listed on the Democratic convention's daily calendar.
   Came 1:30, a handful of reporters was there. But not the
senators or congressmen. A party spokesman said the event had been
moved to a nearby hotel where Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass., was to
attend an unrelated session on fighting drugs. The two events had
been merged, the spokesman said.
   But Larry Carpman, Kerry's spokesman, said his boss was not
involved. Try the office of Sen. Carl Levin, D-Mich., a long-time
critic of Meese's behavior in government?
   Levin's people said they had nothing to do with the event.
   ``This thing's not going to happen,'' said a party spokesman. He
was right.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   Speaking of Events that Never Were:
   People with AIDS Coalition, a newly formed AIDS prevention group
in Utah, had obtained a permit for a 90-minute program in the
``protest zone,'' an empty parking lot about a block from the
convention hall.
   Again, reporters showed up, but none of the advocates. No one
there knew why.
   ``We've had several groups that didn't show up,'' said Lt. W.F.
Derrick of the Atlanta police department.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   Scaling the Heights:
   He has the votes to be the Democratic nominee for president, but
does Michael Dukakis have the stature to fill the office?
   Sure. Dukakis, at 5-foot-8, is not another Lincoln (6-foot-4)
but he's as tall or taller than nine U.S. presidents including the
Adamses, John and John Quincy, both 5-foot-7.
   That hasn't prevented the occasional jibe, one of which was
repeated on air Monday by ABC News anchorman Peter Jennings. He
quoted an unidentified senior aide to Dukakis: ``We want a
convention that is organized, orderly and short _ just like our
candidate.''
   If elected, Dukakis would be the shortest president since
William McKinley (5-foot-7) won office in 1896. The shortest was
5-foot-4.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   Smelling the fumes:
   Jesse Jackson's ``Rainbow Express'' bus caravan rolled through
five states en route to Atlanta in airconditioned comfort. But once
in the convention city, the means of transport changed to
dilapidated, non-airconditioned school buses.
   Two of them carried the Jackson press corps to a luncheon given
by former President Jimmy Carter. One broke down as it wheezed up
the Carter Center driveway.
   That meant squeezing the hot reporters, crews and cameras into
just one steamy bus for the trip back. It was too much for the bus.
It stopped dead on a slight grade but was revived to pick up the
reporters who decided the better part of valor was to walk.
   The rest of the journey was inch-by-inch, keeping fingers
crossed. For reporters it gave new meaning to the Jackson battle
cry: ``Keep hope alive.''
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   Michelangelo Painted Ceilings, Didn't He?
   You can hardly go anywhere in this town without bumping into
reporters, a species identified by a ``where-do-I-get-a-story''
look that's unmistakable. But there's danger of stepping on others
in the public arts, too.
   Outside the Hyatt Regency Hotel, which is Michael Dukakis'
headquarters, Sidewalk Sam _ also known as Bob Guillemin of
Massachusetts _ is doing his thing. His thing being painting chalk
portraits on sidewalks. Big portraits.
   The likeness he's doing now? Who else but the Duke?
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0193 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1827EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u a AM-DefenseProbe-GrandJury 1stLd-Writethru a0747 07-19 1098</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Defense Probe-Grand Jury, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0747,1,040</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Grand Jury Begins Taking Testimony In Pentagon Case</HEAD>
<NOTE>EDs: TOPS with 3 grafs with Unisys shakeup, picks up 2nd graf pvs,
Meanwhile, an; ADDS 10 grafs on Unisys actions</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By MICHAEL J. SNIFFEN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ALEXANDRIA, Va. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A federal grand jury began hearing
witnesses on Tuesday in the massive Pentagon bribery investigation,
while a major contractor fired all its defense-contract consultants
and shook up the management of one division.
   Unisys Corp., whose offices on Long Island, N.Y., have been
searched by federal agents, announced that its own, independent
investigation begun last fall by former Watergate special
prosecutor Henry Ruth had uncovered activity contrary to company
policy.
   Unisys chairman W. Michael Blumenthal, a former Treasury
secretary, placed a Long Island division under new management, put
some employees on administrative leave and terminated ``all
consulting contracts with those who represented the company before
the federal government on defense-related matters.''
   Meanwhile, an attorney for defense consultant and former Navy
official Melvyn Paisley filed motions to quash 11 subpoenas from
the grand jury and to be advised if the government conducted any
illegal electronic surveillance of his client.
   In all, 275 subpoenas, mostly for documents and records, were
due to be answered in Alexandria on Tuesday. Sharon Dibbley,
spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Henry Hudson, said the government had
arranged a location, which she would not identify, where lawyers
and those under subpoena could deliver records without being
observed by reporters.
   Many of the subpoenas are to persons who are only potential
witnesses in the investigation and not targets of it.
   Ms. Dibbley had no comment on the Paisley motion to quash his
subpoenas and said she knew of no objections filed to the other
subpoenas.
   The only recognizable figure to arrive for the morning session
of the grand jury in the U.S. Courthouse was Jack A. Sherman, a
civilian employee of the Marine Corps who supervised equipment
purchases. Sherman's office was searched by federal agents in a
series of coordinated raids on June 14 which brought the nearly
2-year-old probe to public attention.
   No one has been charged yet in the probe of the
$150-billion-a-year Pentagon purchasing system. But government
documents show that investigators are looking allegations that
defense contractors and consultants, many of them former military
men, bribed Pentagon officials for contracting details that could
be vital in winning contracts worth billions of dollars.
   Sherman, who has been transferred to other duties pending the
outcome of the investigation, was a supervisory negotiator for the
contracts division of installation and logistics office of the
Marine Corps. He has been a civilian employee of the Marine Corps
since 1971 and was a civilian Navy employee from 1957 to 1971.
   According to Pentagon records, Sherman is a GS-14, making
between $46,600 and $60,683.
   Neither he nor his attorney would comment on his appearance at
the courthouse. It could not be determined if he was actually
brought before the grand jury.
   Other witnesses, however, were seen entering and leaving the
grand jury room later in the day. At a lunch break, Assistant U.S.
Attorney Joseph Aronica, who is in charge of the grand jury, told
reporters ``there won't be any luminaries'' during the first day.
   The grand jury is expected to be back in session Wednesday.
   Paisley's attorney, E. Lawrence Barcella, said he filed a motion
to quash the 11 subpoenas issued for Paisley, who served as
assistant Navy secretary for research, engineering and systems from
December 1981 to April 1987 when he became a consultant.
   In addition, Barcella said, ``We asked the government to affirm
or deny whether they used illegal electronic surveillance. Even the
fact that they may have gotten authorization does not mean their
wiretap was applied for and carried out in a legal matter. Before
we comply with a subpoena, we want to insure that the government
has carried out its responsibilities under the wiretap statute in
an appropriate and accurate manner.''
   Earlier, the government released the search warrant for Paisley,
which indicated that FBI agents were investigating whether he
received payments from General Dynamics, McDonnell Douglas and
Pratt & Whitney while he worked for the Pentagon. The warrant also
showed the government is investigating consulting work he has done
since leaving the government for 10 different defense contractors.
   At Unisys, Blumenthal said in a letter to company employees that
the giant computer company, formed by the merger of Sperry and
Burroughs, had pledged full cooperation with Hudson's investigation.
   ``We expect and encourage each of our employees also to
cooperate fully in responding to the government's inquiries,''
Blumenthal wrote.
   The new management was installed at the former Sperry
Surveillance and Fire Control Division in Great Neck, N.Y.,
Blumenthal said. The government searched Unisys offices in Great
Neck on June 14.
   Federal agents also searched offices or homes of Charles
Gardner, consultant and former general manager and vice president
at the Unisys Great Neck plant; Dennis Mitchell, administrative
aide at the plant; Armtec, a Florida company owned by consultant
William W. Roberts who retired after 30 years with Sperry; William
Galvin, a consultant who worked for Unisys among other companies;
James Kane, founder of the Long Island Aerospace Political Action
Committee; and Paisley, who also did some work for Unisys.
   Mitchell is reported by several newspapers to have handed checks
to Rep. Roy Dyson, D-Md., as campaign contributions during a tour
he made of the Unisys plant a year ago. Those checks and others
later mailed totaled $14,000, the reports have said. The government
has searched the offices of Richard Seelmeyer, a former
congressional aide and Maryland air charter pilot who is reported
to have arranged Dyson's flight to Long Island.
   Blumenthal said he was establishing a senior management approval
process for all consulting agreements and congressional honoraria.
   He also announced the hiring of the Washington law firm of
Covington & Burling to aid the company in enforcing an ethics
program introduced a year ago.
   ``Although our internal investigation is not concluded,''
Blumenthal said. ``to date it indicates that certain division
employees and consultants appear to have had a history of engaging
at Sperry in activities which are contrary to the policies and
procedures put in place by Unisys. These practices appear to have
continued in the new company.''
   The division employes 2,500 of Unisys' 90,000 employees and had
1987 revenue of $300 million with before-tax profits of $18 million.
   Blumenthal said the internal inquiry, begun without knowledge of
the government's investigation, ``focused on the use of outside
consultants and whether any division funds had been diverted for
improper use.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0194 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1946EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-WeatherpageWeather     07-19 0434</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Weatherpage Weather,0445</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Showers, Thunderstorms From Plains To Gulf Coast</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By The Associated Press</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   Widespread showers, thunderstorms and cloudiness moderated
temperatures across much of the nation Tuesday, while parts of
inland California baked.
   Showers and thunderstorms reached across the Gulf Coast states,
the Tennessee and Ohio valleys and portions of the Plains states.
Light rain fell from western Pennsylvania to parts of New England.
   Serious street flooding occurred at Lake Charles, La., Tuesday
morning during heavy thunderstorms.
   Thunderstorms also kicked up high winds, including gusts up to
40 mph at Edmond, Okla., and a tornado just south of Wichita, Kan.
No damage or injuries were reported.
   Widespread rains of 2 to 5 inches Monday night and Tuesday
morning across south-central Nebraska caused lowland flooding of
many small streams in the Republican River basin.
   Heavier rainfall during the six hours ended at 2 p.m. EDT
included more than 3 inches at Enid, Okla.; about 1{ inches at Lake
Charles, La., Cincinnati and Dyersburg, Tenn.; and more than a
half-inch at Baton Rouge, La., Dothan, Ala., Lincoln, Neb., and
Colorado Springs, Colo.
   Temperatures were mostly in the 80s and 90s across much of the
West including the Pacific Northwest. Portland, Ore., reached 94
degrees by noon local time.
   A strong upper-level high pressure system anchored over Northern
California pushed inland temperatures well above 100 degrees.
Redding, Calif., reached 105 degrees by noon.
   Much of the Northeast, Midwest and the northern and central
Plains had relatively moderate temperatures, with the help of some
cloudiness and scattered showers. Readings were in the 70s and 80s,
with some 60s in southwestern Minnesota, northwestern Iowa and most
of Nebraska. Temperatures in eastern Colorado were mostly in the
50s.
   In the humid south, temperatures were in the lower 90s in
between the showers, from North Carolina across the Gulf Coast
states to much of Texas.
   Temperatures around the nation at 3 p.m. EDT ranged from 55
degrees at Denver and Limon, Colo., to 105 degrees at Redding,
Calif. The nation's low Tuesday morning was 35 degrees at West
Yellowstone, Mont.
   Wednesday's forecast called for showers and thunderstorms in the
Arizona mountains and from the central and southern Rockies across
the southern Plains; Mississippi, Ohio and Tennessee valleys;
southern Great Lakes; and Gulf Coast to the mid- and south-Atlantic
Coast.
   High temperatures should be in the 80s and 90s, except 70s from
the upper Great Lakes to the northern and central Plains and along
parts of the Pacific Coast, and 100 or more in parts of Texas and
in lower elevations of the interior Northwest and California and
the desert Southwest.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0195 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1949EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w AM-DairyOutlook     07-19 0216</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Dairy Outlook,220</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Milk Output Expected About 1 Percent Above Last Year</HEAD>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Milk production may not increase this year as
much as forecast earlier, an Agriculture Department report said
Tuesday.
   ``For all of 1988, milk production probably will total about 1
percent more than 1987's 142.5 billion pounds,'' the department's
Economic Research Service said. Earlier, the agency said the
increase could be in the range of 1 percent to 3 percent.
   ``Downward pressure on milk production will intensify during the
second half of 1988,'' the report said. ``Concentrate (grain)
prices will be much higher, and forage costs will rise sharply in
areas hit by the drought.''
   Seasonal increases in milk prices will ``likely be larger'' than
last year, although the average price at the farm for all of 1988
probably will be down 3 percent to 5 percent from last year's
$12.54 per 100 pounds, the report said.
   ``May retail prices were less than 2 percent higher than a year
ago, and only half the increase for all food or all consumer
items,'' the report said. ``Seasonal upswings in retail prices may
be slightly larger than a year earlier during the second half of
1988. However, retail dairy prices probably will average only 1
percent to 3 percent higher for the year.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0196 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1831EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i AM-Britain-PrisonRiot     07-19 0182</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Britain-Prison Riot,0186</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Inmates Riot At Scottish Prison; One Injured</HEAD>
<DATELINE>AIRDRIE, Scotland (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   More than 80 inmates rampaged through
two sections of a detention center Tuesday in a riot that left at
least one prisoner injured.
   About 40 police in riot gear stood by late Tuesday as other
officers negotiated with the prisoners by telephone. The inmates'
demands were not immediately clear.
   The uprising at Longriggend remand center, which holds suspects
awaiting trial, broke out when two inmates began fighting after
lunch, the domestic news agency Press Association reported.
   The center outside Glasgow, Scotland's largest city, houses
about 240 inmates.
   At one time, more than 80 inmates climbed a roof, tore off tiles
and threw them at prison staff. The chapel also was damaged.
   One of the inmates fell from the roof and was hospitalized with
broken wrists and a knee injury.
   Several inmates surrendered, but about 50 prisoners _ some
wearing hoods to conceal their identity _ continued to taunt police
with chants, Press Association said. Some inmates later left the
roof and barricaded themselves inside a cell block.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0197 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1952EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-Salvador     07-19 0326</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Salvador,0337</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Leftist Political Leader Postpones Return After Arrest Threats</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By ANNIE CABRERA</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Leftist political leader Mario
Aguinada Carranza says he has canceled his planned return to El
Salvador because of government threats that he will be arrested.
   Aguinada, secretary-general of the Nationalist Democratic Union
Party, told The Associated Press by telephone from Mexico that the
threats ``clearly show the lack of guarantees in the country.''
   When party leaders last week announced plans to return,
Information Minister Roberto Viera told reporters that military
authorities should take Aguinada into custody because ``there are
national and foreign press reports saying he is a leader of the
FMLN.''
   The FMLN is the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front, the
coalition of five leftist guerrilla groups that have fought the
U.S.-supported government since 1980. It is allied with the
Democratic Revolutionary Front, or FDR, the left's legal political
umbrella organization.
   ``It is one thing that leaders of the FDR can enter the country
to seek legitimacy and political legality and another that a member
of the FMLN wants to enter the country,'' Viera said.
   Aguinada, interviewed Monday, denied he was ever a guerrilla
commander. He helped found the Democratic Revolutionary Front in
1980.
   He said one reason leaders of his Nationalist Democratic Union
Party want to return is to reactivate its 1969 registration as a
legal political party.
   Government officials have described his organization as a front
for the Salvadoran Communist Party.
   Aronette Diaz de Zamora, a leader of the party who is in El
Salvador, denied the accusation.
   ``That is what they have always said, but we are people of
progressive thought and in our party there have been people from
all the political spectrum and we do not deny there may have been
someone from the Communist Party,'' she said.
   Aguinada said Mrs. Zamora and Tirso Canales, who was due to
arrive shortly, would work to revive the party.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0198 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1953EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-BeachWaste     07-19 0467</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Beach Waste,0480</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Officials Say No Risk Associated With Washed-Up Hospital Waste;
Cartter is cq</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By KAREN SCHWARTZ</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>PROVIDENCE, R.I. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Small amounts of medical debris were
found on beaches in Rhode Island and Massachusetts on Tuesday, more
than 100 miles from the New York and New Jersey shores, where
larger quantities of medical waste have washed up in past weeks.
   The waste poses no specific health risk, officials said. But
some states closed the affected beaches.
   Rhode Island officials said they had little doubt the needles
and syringes, catheter bags, rubber tubing, and respirator parts
were related to the other finds. Some waste also was found on
Connecticut beaches last week.
   The waste likely is ``part of a sweeping arc of medical garbage
that someone has dropped off the Eastern shore,'' said Rhode Island
Health Director H. Denman Scott.
   Health officials in Rhode Island and Connecticut said tests
revealed little health risks associated with the debris, even
though a handful of vials found in New Jersey and New York earlier
this month contained blood that tested positive for the AIDS virus.
   ``Aesthetically, it's a problem. Nobody wants to swim in
garbage,'' said Dr. Matthew Cartter, coordinator of the Connecticut
Health Department's epidemiology program.
   ``But from an epidemiological point of view, there has never
been an outbreak because of disposal of infectious waste,'' he said
Monday.
   Dr. Barbara Debuono, chief of disease control for Rhode Island's
health department, said Tuesday that sun and salt water should have
effectively removed any infectious material from the items.
   It's highly unlikely a person stepping on a needle would
contract hepatitis or the deadly acquired immune deficiency
syndrome, she said.
   Tests on three syringes found at southern Rhode Island beaches
turned up no signs of blood or contaminants, the state health
department said. Those beaches will stay open, officials said.
   Peter Look, a health official in Edgartown, Mass., said Martha's
Vineyard beaches would also stay open, despite discovery of some
empty medical vials and several syringes.
   New York City officials, meanwhile, were waiting for two
consecutive clean tides before lifting the swimming ban at several
city beaches shut when medical waste washed ashore, said Parks
Commissioner Henry Stern.
   About 90 items, including syringes and bottles, were found on
beaches in the New York city area Monday.
   In New Jersey, a swimming ban remained in effect for some
beaches in Asbury Park and Ocean Grove after water samples
continued to show high levels of fecal coliform bacteria, usually
associated with human waste.
   ``It's coming from somewhere, and it's very frustrating not to
know where because we're very concerned it will happen again,''
said Anthony Del Pizzo, head of beach operations in Asbury Park,
where a five-day ban on swimming was lifted Sunday on all but one
beach.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0199 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1835EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u p AM-CVN--Dukakis-BodyLanguage 1stLd-WritethreamandcontributethebestIcan.''
  07-19 0701</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-CVN--Dukakis-Body Language, 1st Ld-Writethru,a0672,800</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>Eds: Updates grafs 10-12 with TV interview cancellations and
cacucus visit, picks up 11th graf pvs... All business.</NOTE>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
<HEAD>An AP News Analysis</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JONATHAN WOLMAN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The most precious commodity in a political
campaign _ more than money or endorsements or straw hats with red,
white and blue bunting _ is what insiders refer to as ``the body.''
This week, the body belongs to one Michael Stanley Dukakis.
   To see what the Democrats want to achieve during convention
week, it's instructive to consider how the governor is spending his
time here. His schedule reveals a sharp departure from the strategy
of nominees past.
   The Dukakis campaign has junked the nominee's ritual
convention-week meetings with delegates. In the past, a fellow like
Walter Mondale or George McGovern would begin his convention day
with breakfast remarks to, say, the Oklahoma delegation, and then
go on to a brief appearance before, for example, the Upper Midwest
Hispanic Agricultural Caucus.
   The Dukakis people have changed all that. The plans for Gov.
Dukakis this week have taken the nominee out of his party's
smoke-filled buffets and instead into the community for some
well-publicized, and carefully considered, public events.
   Ranging from his Sunday night family reunion at cousin Pano's
restaurant in Buckhead to the Monday morning unity meeting with
Jesse Jackson, the Democratic nominee-to-be is balancing political
duties with the developing imagery of a common man.
   Dukakis' main events were plotted in advance as symbols of three
issues he hopes to pursue in his fall campaign against George Bush:
His concern with drug abuse, his endorsement of plant closing
legislation, and his support for civil rights enforcement.
   An event-a-day was scheduled to demonstrate the Democratic
position on these issues.
   For example, on Tuesday Dukakis traveled over to Sweet Auburn
for a tour of the Martin Luther King Center. This is a man who
during his 17-month primary campaign traveled to hundreds of cities
in 40-odd states, who did events morning, noon and night, and it
was rare that he would make his way into the black community.
   Right or wrong, Dukakis simply conceded the primary black vote
to Jesse Jackson. Against Bush, he is conceding nothing, so there
he was with Coretta Scott King, talking about the link between
Greek immigrants and American blacks.
   The other major element of Dukakis' carefully crafted Atlanta
day may be even more significant. His schedulers have allotted as
much as 90 minutes a day for the governor to conduct television
interviews with local TV stations around the country. This is a
huge chunk of time, considering the number of party officials, fat
cats and humble print journalists who would kill for a minute of
the nominee's convention-week time.
   At the Hyatt Regency, a hotel room has been wired for video and
sound; Dukakis merely has to walk down the hall from his suite
while interviewers are shuttled in and out.
   Of course, the best laid plans ... many of the TV interviews
have been canceled as other events crowded in, and on Monday
Dukakis had to scrap a factory gate appearance to find time for the
Dukakis parlay with Jesse Jackson. And at least one special
interest caucus got a Dukakis visit _ Hispanic congressmen.
   All business and no pleasure would make Mikey a dull boy. And so
interspersed amongst his convention events, Dukakis has found time
for his daily power walk (an exercise routine, no press coverage)
and for late-night family dinners.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>___</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   Of course Dukakis hasn't got the only body in town. Sen. Lloyd
Bentsen, the designated running mate, has a full plate of
delegation breakfasts and special interest caucuses.
   This is how Bentsen's body was being deployed on Tuesday:
   8 a.m. Salute to civil rights at Commerce Club.
   10:20 a.m. Meet with Texas Black Congressional Caucus.
   10:45 a.m. Brunch with Texas delegation.
   11:45 a.m. Tour Martin Luther King Center with Coretta Scott
King.
   7:30 p.m. Finance twilight supper.
   9:30 p.m. Network interviews at Hyatt.
   Presumedly, Bentsen doesn't mind pulling these chores. After
all, it's perfect training for the vice presidency.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>___</HEAD>
<NOTE>EDITOR'S NOTE </NOTE>
<TEXT>
   Jonathan Wolman is assistant bureau chief for
The Associated Press in Washington.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0200 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2006EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-Poland     07-19 0586</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Poland,0604</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Wage Dispute Disrupts Mine in Silesia, Inflation Hits 56 Percent</HEAD>
<DATELINE>WARSAW, Poland (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A pay dispute disrupted a coal mine's
operations for two days, authorities said Tuesday, and the
government said retail price inflation reached 56.7 percent in the
first half of the year.
   Wages went up even more, by 63.8 percent, said the report
published in the government newspaper Rzeczpospolita. The increase
would put the national average wage on July 1 at the equivalent of
about $106 a month compared to $91 on Jan. 1.
   Workers in some plants struck in April and May for higher wages
to offset 27 percent price increases imposed in February. Since
then, both prices and wages have gone higher than the government
had planned.
   Official say they want to analyze economic statistics for the
first half of 1988 before starting new talks with official trade
unions on adjusting wage-and-price policy.
   In one instance of wage pressure, the state news agency PAP said
Tuesday that two days of labor-management talks over pay affected
output at the Boleslaw the Bold coal mine at Laziszka, near
Katowice in southern Poland.
   An official statement issued Tuesday after a Cabinet meeting
said: ``The principal goal for next year is to be the radical
reduction of inflation, which is now the most important single
factor standing in the way of increasing the efficiency of
industrial production in Poland.''
   Next to the statement, Rzeczpospolita published an interview
with government economist Erwin Plichcinski, in which he gave new
inflation figures.
   Plichcinski said the growth of wages faster than prices has set
off a ``worrying inflationary gap.''
   The 56.7 percent inflation for the first six months of 1988
exceeds initial projections for the entire year. Poland's central
annual plan projected growth in prices of 40-44 percent in 1988,
with wages planned to rise 36 percent. Prices rose 42 percent in
the first quarter alone.
   At Laziszka, some miners refused to work Saturday, prompting a
round of talks with management that evening, and the talks
continued Monday, PAP said.
   Government spokesman Jerzy Urban said 800 of 980 miners refused
to work for several hours Monday. He said he had no details on the
number involved Saturday.
   He referred reporters to the PAP report when asked if the miners
received raises. The news agency said only that miners resumed work
after having ``accepted explanations and information presented to
them in the course of the meetings.''
   A spokesman for the state mining monopoly Polish Coal, speaking
on condition of anonymity, said the workers were promised higher
pay although negotiations were still going on. Miners now earn the
equivalent of $111-$133 a month.
   Urban also said a newspaper report on secret U.S. assistance to
Solidarity proves the banned trade union movement is not ``a Polish
force,'' and accused the United States of interfering in Polish
affairs.
   A July 10 report in the New York Times said the U.S. government
has secretly supported emigre efforts to smuggle printing
equipment, radio systems and video cassettes to opposition groups
in Poland. It said this was in addition to $2 million to Solidarity
openly appropriated by Congress.
   ``We view both these overt and covert actions by the U.S.
authorities as a significant manifestation of U.S. policy toward
Poland which stands in glaring contrast with the professed U.S.
principle of non-intervention in our internal affairs,'' Urgban
said.
   As for Solidarity, he said: ``Whoever receives a soldier's pay
from an alien power can neither define itself as an independent
force nor a Polish force.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0201 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2007EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-CopsIndicted     07-19 0456</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Cops Indicted,0466</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Seven Former Narcotics Officers Indicted</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By LEE LINDER</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>PHILADELPHIA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A federal grand jury indicted seven former
narcotics officers Tuesday, charging them with a racketeering
conspiracy and extortion of at least $400,000 and large quantities
of cocaine from drug dealers.
   Police Commissioner Willie Williams called the latest
indictments ``another sad day for the Philadelphia police
department'' and said he is continuing efforts to root out
corruption. But he added that the corruption involves ``only a very
small and insignificant number'' of officers.
   ``For police officers to take money or other property in
exchange for allowing drug dealers to continue to deal drugs or for
the officers to take and to distribute drugs themselves, that makes
other forms of official corruption pale in comparison,'' said
acting U.S. Attorney Thomas Lee II.
   Lee spoke at a news conference, where one of the indicted men,
former Lt. John Wilson, burst in to proclaim his innocence, saying,
``I was investigated for seven years.'' FBI agents forcibly ejected
him.
   Since a federal inquiry into official corruption here began
nearly a decade ago, about 40 city police officers have been
convicted, mostly for protecting illegal gambling.
   Six of the officers indicted Tuesday are no longer members of
Philadelphia's 7,000-member police department and the seventh, who
had remained on th force but not in a narcotics squad, was
suspended and given a dismissal notification, Williams said.
   Two others who were not police officers were also charged, one
with conspiracy to distribute cocaine the police obtained in a
narcotics search, and the other with failing to pay income taxes on
drug profits.
   The indictment alleges the racketeering activity occurred
between January 1980 and February 1984 when at least 65 narcotics
searches were conducted by officers assigned to a special drug
squad that has since been disbanded.
   The indictment charged Wilson, Ronald Giongo, David Grove, James
Cattalo, Richard Jumper and Francis Hilt with obtaining money and
other property, including drugs, for their personal gain by
stealing, threats and intimidation, Lee said.
   This pattern of activity falls under federal racketeering laws,
Lee said, enabling the indictment to seek forfeiture to the
government of about $400,000 in proceeds. Racketeering also carries
a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and a $25,000 fine.
   Besides the racketeering charge, Grove and Cattalo are accused
of distributing and possessing with intent to distribute cocaine
and methamphetamine. Grove, Cattalo, Wilson and Hilt are charged
with conspiracy to obstruct justice.
   Another ex-member of the special drug squad, Charles Hund, and
civilian Scott Karasinksi were charged with conspiracy to
distribute cocaine, while Karasinksi also was charged with failure
to file a tax return. Civilian Donald Crawford was charged with two
counts of income tax evasion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0202 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1923EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i AM-Soviet-China     07-19 0214</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Soviet-China,0222</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>New Soviet-Chinese Visa Agreement Announced</HEAD>
<DATELINE>MOSCOW (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Soviet and Chinese citizens soon will not need
visas to visit each other's country for business purposes, a
Foreign Ministry official announced Tuesday.
   Oleg Avramenko, first deputy chief of the ministry's consular
directorate, said the new agreement goes into effect on Aug. 14. He
called it part of the ``overall Soviet-Chinese relationship.''
   Soviet and Chinese representatives signed the agreement in
Moscow on Friday, he told a government news briefing.
   The two communist giants fell out in the 1960s over ideological
differences and border questions, but now are holding regular
negotiations about normalizing their relations.
   Avramenko said that under the new regulations, ``all citizens of
the two countries can go on business trips regardless of whether
they have diplomat's, citizen's or businessmen's passports.''
   The Soviet official said that previously, only Chinese and
Soviet diplomats were authorized to visit the other country without
visas.
   He said the new visa-free system would make it easier for
members of economic cooperatives that have been created in both
countries to do business together.
   Avramenko said the Chinese offered to sell the Soviets a
consignment of watermelons last year, but the more stringent visa
regulations made it ``hard to close that deal.'' The melons were
finally sold, he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0203 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2036EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-Britain-SAfrica     07-19 0425</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Britain-SAfrica,0440</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Thatcher Rejects Labor Leader's Call For South Africa Sanctions</HEAD>
<HEAD>With AM-Mandela, Bjt</HEAD>
<DATELINE>LONDON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher affirmed her
opposition to sanctions against South Africa during an exchange
Tuesday in Parliament where shouting opponents labeled her a racist.
   ``If there were ever to be comprehensive sanctions on South
Africa, the number of people who would suffer, including children,
would be significantly greater,'' Mrs. Thatcher said to the
650-member House of Commons.
   The exchange came in a session of the twice-weekly Question
Time, where the prime minister fields questions and often insults
from legislators. Mrs. Thatcher said sanctions would devastate the
economies of the countries near South Africa.
   Those countries _ Angola, Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Botswana and
Zambia _ are dependent on South Africa to transport their goods and
have not imposed economic restrictions themselves, she said.
   Replying to a question from opposition leader Neil Kinnock, Mrs.
Thatcher said Britain already has invested $84 million in foreign
aid to the surrounding states and has further plans to reduce their
dependence on South Africa.
   Kinnock, leader of the Labor Party, said his visit to southern
Africa last week showed him that ``strong sanctions'' were needed
to end South Africa's system of apartheid.
   Under apartheid, South Africa's 26 million blacks cannot vote on
national affairs. The 5 million whites control the economy and
maintain separate districts, schools and health services.
   Kinnock did not visit South Africa.
   ``The leaders of the front-line states call for sanctions,''
Kinnock told Mrs. Thatcher amid cheers from his party and jeers
from her governing Conservatives.
   ``Do you really think you know more about what needs to be done
than those who live daily with apartheid and its oppression? This
is not only a question of sense but a question of morality,''
Kinnock said.
   As rank-and-file Labor legislators shouted ``racist!'' and
``Nazi!'' at Mrs. Thatcher and the Conservatives, she replied:
   ``I totally disagree with you about sanctions, and unlike you
I'm not prepared to stand here comfortably in this house and impose
starvation on millions and millions of black South Africans and
black children.''
   South Africa's ambassador to Britain meanwhile defended the
imprisonment of Nelson Mandela, leader of the African National
Congress, who turned 70 on Monday.
   Speaking to a meeting of the Diplomatic and Commonwealth
Writers' Association in London, Ambassador Rae Killen said Mandela
could be released if he renounced violence. Mandela says South
Africa must first renounce apartheid.
   He has been imprisoned since 1962, first for inciting unrest and
later for sabotage and plotting to overthrow the government.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0204 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2050EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w AM-ControllerElection 1stLd-Writethru a0712ytokeynotespeakerAnnRichardsectFirstUnionPresidentSince1981Strike
07-19 0175</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Controller Election, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0712,160</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Air Traffic Controllers Elect First Union President Since 1981
Strike</HEAD>
<NOTE>EDs: Restores omitted time element 2nd graf.</NOTE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Air traffic controllers have elected their
first union president since the 1981 strike in which 11,400
controllers were fired and their old union destroyed.
   In balloting that stretched over several weeks, R. Steve Bell, a
controller from New York, was elected president of the new National
Air Traffic Controllers Association, according to an announcement
Tuesday.
   Bell, who was hired as a controller after the 1981 strike,
received 1,948 votes compared with 1,138 for his chief rival, Fred
Gilbert of Chicago. The union also selected a group of regional
representatives and other officers.
   All of the officers, including the president, were elected to
three-year terms.
   The National Air Traffic Controllers Association was formed last
year as a successor to the Professional Air Traffic Controllers
Association (PATCO), which went backrupt after its unsuccessful
1981 strike.
   The new union claims about 5,000 members, about 40 percent of
those eligible to join.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0205 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2057EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-Soviet-Hijack     07-19 0236</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Soviet-Hijack,0243</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Investigation Concluded; Case Sent to Court for Trial</HEAD>
<DATELINE>MOSCOW (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Two surviving members of a family that tried to
hijack a passenger jet to the West were charged at the conclusion
of an investigation into the incident in which nine people were
killed, it was reported Tuesday.
   Igor Ovechkin and his sister, Olga, were charged with planning
and executing the March 8 hijacking during which a flight attendant
and three passengers were killed, the official Soviet news agency
Tass said.
   The family of hijackers originally included five brothers, Olga,
and their mother, Ninel Ovechkin. There were also at least four
children accompanying the adults, according to earlier press
reports.
   The hijackers seized an Aeroflot TU-154 en route from the
Siberian city of Irkutsk to Leningrad, via the Ural Mountain city
of Kurgan. The crew was ordered to fly to a West European city.
   The plane landed at a small airport near Vyborg, on the border
with Finland, and the hijackers set off an explosive device when
they realized they had landed within Soviet territory.
   ``Four of the brothers then committed suicide after first
shooting their mother dead at her request,'' Tass said.
   Security troops stormed the plane and arrested the survivors.
   Tass said that in addition to the loss of life, the Soviet state
suffered material damage amounting to nearly $2.2 million.
   Tass said the case was sent to court for trial.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0206 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2058EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p AM-CVN--Dixie     07-19 0150</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-CVN--Dixie,150</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>A Few Notes of ``Dixie'' Greet Delegates Before Music Is Shut Off</HEAD>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Delegates arriving for Tuesday's session of the
Democratic National Convention were greeted by the strains of
``Dixie'' as they entered The Omni convention hall, but not for
long.
   Don Fowler, chief executive officer of the convention, was
standing backstage talking with Paul Kirk, chairman of the
Democratic National Committee, when the taped music started.
   ``I gotta go,'' Fowler said and dashed out onto the podium,
waving his arms at the sound technician, who was perched atop a
camera stand about 80 feet away.
   The soundman failed to see the frantic signals and so Fowler
picked up an in-house telephone and called him. The music ended
abruptly a few notes later.
   ``I like the song myself,'' said Fowler, who is from Columbia,
S.C. But he acknowledged that some convention delegates might not
agree.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0207 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2129EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p AM-CVN--Congress-Convention     07-19 0522</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-CVN--Congress-Convention,520</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Congressional Leaders Take Shots At Bush, Tout Own Record</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JIM DRINKARD</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Democratic congressional leaders took shots
Tuesday at Republican presidential contender George Bush, touted
their legislative record and promised an ``all-out war'' against
drugs.
   ``I want to show you what your Democratic Congress has done, and
how much more we can do with Michael Dukakis and Lloyd Bentsen in
the White House,'' House Speaker Jim Wright said in prepared
remarks to the Democratic National Convention.
   Democrats have dominated Congress for most of the past 35 years.
They last controlled both the White House and the legislative
branch in 1980. Reagan won the presidential election that year, and
the Republicans gained control of the Senate. The Democrats
reclaimed the Senate six years later.
   Wright rattled off a list of bills enacted by Congress over the
past 18 months, noting that two _ the clean water act and a highway
bill _ were passed over President Reagan's veto.
   He also pointed to legislation to give American workers 60 days'
notice of impending plant closings, the provision which Reagan
cited in vetoing a trade bill. Congress separated the plant
closings from the trade bill and sent both issues back to Reagan as
separate bills.
   ``Before this summer ends, we shall lead a strong initiative
against our most serious national problem _ illegal drugs,'' Wright
said, sounding a theme that has shown up in national polls as the
most ripe for political appeals. ``The Democratic Congress will
declare an all-out war on drugs.''
   Reagan's response to the drug problem has been the slogan,
``Just say no,'' Wright observed. ``It does little good ... when
the administration is unwilling to say `yes' to the funding
necessary to carry on the war.''
   House Democratic Whip Tony Coelho of California turned his guns
on Bush, seeking to emphasize what Democrats have come to call the
GOP nominee's ``wimp factor.''
   ``We're prepared to give George Bush the licking of his
political life,'' Coelho said, noting that Bush has spent most of
the Democratic Convention week a fishing spot in Wyoming with
Treasury Secretary James Baker III.
   Baker, who is expected to resign later this summer to head the
Bush campaign, is there ``just in case George is too squeamish to
bait his own hook,'' Coelho said.
   And he drew distinctions between the Democrats' Dukakis-Bentsen
ticket and Bush's candidacy.
   ``It is a race between two vastly different profiles in
leadership,'' he said. ``A race between a man of action and a man
of absence. Between a man with a noble purpose, and a man with a
noble pedigree. Between a miracle from Massachusetts with a real
Texas accent, and a fellow who wears cowboy boots over argyle
socks.''
   Senate Majority Leader Robert Byrd of West Virginia took a more
philosophical tone, asserting that the Reagan administration
brought ``greed and arrogance'' to government and called for a
restoration of confidence.
   ``We must ... roll back the shadows that have gathered over this
administration _ the mistrust, the arrogance, the dark dealings,''
Byrd said. ``National policy cannot be made by wisecrack and
blunder.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0208 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2131EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-Shultz 1stLd-Writethru a0819 07-19 0539</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Shultz, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0819,0550</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>RETRANSMITTING to restore 1st Ld-Writethru designation.</HEAD>
<HEAD>Shultz Says U.S. Ready For Talks With Iran</HEAD>
<NOTE>EDs: LEADS with 3 grafs to UPDATE with Shultz leaving Japan
Wednesday for Marshall Islands; pickup 4th graf pvs, At a news ...</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By DENIS D. GRAY</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>TOKYO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Secretary of State George P. Shultz said Tuesday
that Washington was ready for talks with Iran and welcomed that
country's acceptance of a U.N. resolution to end the bloody war
with Iraq.
   But he said U.S. warships would remain in the Persian Gulf until
they were no longer needed to protect American-flag vessels and
ensure freedom of navigation.
   Shultz spoke near the conclusion of his last and longest trip to
Asia as secretary of state. He left Japan Wednesday for the new
Marshall Islands Republic, completing a nine-country, 2{-week trip
through Asia and the Pacific.
   At a news conference following meetings with Japan's leaders,
Shultz said ``the relationship between the United States and Japan
right now is as good, as healthy as it has ever been in my
observation of it.''
   On the Persian Gulf, Shultz said the increase in U.S. military
strength in that region last summer was in response to attacks on
international shipping as part of the Iran-Iraq war, which began in
September 1980. Iraq attacks Iranian economic targets to cut off
the oil exports that finance the war, and Iran retaliates by
raiding neutral merchant vessels.
   ``If the problems go away, the (U.S. military) ship presence
will go down,'' Shultz said. ``Just when that will be apparent
remains to be seen.''
   U.N. Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar announced Monday
that Iran unconditionally accepted a U.N. resolution calling for a
cease-fire in the war. Iraq had accepted the resolution after it
was passed in July 1987, on condition that Iran did so.
   Shultz said the United States remains ``prepared for direct
discussions with them (Iranians) on all manner of issues that
concern us. We want these discussions to be on an official,
authoritative basis.''
   He said indirect talks had been held earlier through Swiss and
other intermediaries.
   Asked about Japanese offers to help resolve the Iran-Iraq
conflict, Shultz said it was a ``very good development'' that Japan
was becoming more involved in major international problems.
   Foreign Minister Sosuke Uno told a news conference Tuesday that
Japan should fill civilian posts in a U.N. peacekeeping force if
one is dispatched to the Iran-Iraq front.
   Japanese officials also said Tokyo would consider resuming
development assistance to both warring nations once peace was
attained.
   Shultz said Japan and the United States had resolved a ``great
many problems'' related to trade and other economic issues.
   Japan, he said, has agreed to remove quotas on the import of
American beef and citrus products, was proceeding to provide
American companies better access to public works projects in Japan
and was taking steps to assume more of the cost for maintaining
about 60,000 U.S. troops stationed in the country.
   The Foreign Ministry provided figures showing Japan's trade
surplus with the United States had declined by 15 percent during
the first half of 1988 over the previous year. It also cited a 40
percent rise in imports from the United States.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0209 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2131EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p AM-Developer-Hart     07-19 0462</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Developer-Hart,0475</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Federal Agency Accuses Developer Of Improperly Aiding Gary Hart
Campaigns</HEAD>
<DATELINE>LOS ANGELES (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Federal Election Commission has accused a
California developer of making contributions exceeding the legal
limit to the presidential campaigns of former Sen. Gary Hart.
   Commission officials filed papers in U.S. District Court on
Monday seeking to force Laguna Beach developer David Stein to
comply with a subpoena and to testify about ``fund raising,
contributions and other activities, commercial or otherwise.''
   The election commission said Stein invoked his Fifth Amendment
right against self-incrimination more than 100 times when he was
questioned about the matter in April.
   The allegations were reported in The Washington Post in January.
Hart said at the time that he knew nothing about illegal
contributions and he directed his staff to return money improperly
obtained.
   Stein's attorney, Paul Sullivan of Washington, D.C., said his
client should not be subject to a civil investigation by the
election commission because he may be the target of a criminal
inquiry by the FBI.
   The commission stated in its court documents that it had reason
to believe Stein may have violated election laws barring
contributions of more than $1,000 to a single candidate and
limiting total individual contributions to $25,000.
   The commission contends that Stein, 40, donated at least $38,750
for the 1980 election, of which only $10,000 was refunded. Among
the contributions were $1,000 to Hart's Americans With Hart
committee; $25,000 to the Democratic National Committee; and $1,000
to the Democratic Congressional Dinner Committee, along with
contributions of $1,000 and $500 to various individual candidates.
   The commission documents state that Stein's efforts to
``impermissibly aid'' the Hart campaign, ``may have been
coordinated with campaign personnel.''
   The Orange County Register, reporting on the documents Tuesday,
said Stein refused to discuss the matter with Register reporters
Monday in Atlanta, where he is attending the Democratic National
Convention as an uncommitted delegate.
   The court documents also link Stein to Newport Beach video
promoter George Stuart Karl, who was indicted last month by a
federal grand jury on charges that he illegally donated almost
$200,000 to candidates, including Hart.
   Among the items Stein refused to discuss during the April
questioning was the purpose of a $30,000 check he wrote in 1984 to
Karl's business, and what, if any, relationship the check had to
the Hart campaign, the documents said.
   Election laws forbid corporate contributions of cash or services
to campaigns.
   The documents also accuse Stein of buying a computer from Hart's
1984 presidential campaign and leasing it back for an amount far
below the market rate.
   If the commission determines that Stein violated federal
election laws, it could impose civil fines up to $10,000, and 20
percent of the amount involved if the violation was found to be
intentional.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0210 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2133EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-AmericanDefector     07-19 0449</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-American Defector,0465</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>American Appears on National Television to Explain Defection</HEAD>
<HEAD>With WASHINGTON-dated AM-Navy Spy Case</HEAD>
<DATELINE>MOSCOW (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Glenn Michael Souther, a former U.S. Navy man who
was granted asylum in the Soviet Union, appeared on Soviet
television Tuesday night and said he fled the United States because
the FBI was hounding him.
   The 31-year-old defector, who worked in naval intelligence while
in the service from 1975-82, appeared at ease during a taped
statement at the end of the nightly news program ``Vremya.'' He
gave no details of alleged FBI persecution.
   Soviet media said Sunday that Souther asked for and was granted
asylum.
   The next day, FBI spokesman Thomas Deaken said in Washington an
espionage investigation was launched against Souther before he
disappeared in May 1986.
   ``For a long time I have served in the U.S. Navy,'' Souther said
on Soviet television.
   He said he had recently worked in naval intelligence and had
studied Russian language and literature at Old Dominion University
in Norfolk, Va.
   ``Last year I found myself confronted with a fateful decision,''
Souther said. ``I had to leave my country, my family, close friends
and relatives. My guilt is that I regarded my convictions and
interests as my natural rights. But the FBI thought otherwise. I
was persecuted and my freedom was threatened.''
   His statement, delivered in English, was voiced over in Russian.
   Souther gave no details of the circumstances he faced. He
concluded his brief address by saying he turned to Soviet
authorities for asylum and ``fortunately for me, it was granted.''
   Souther disappeared in May 1986 after he was confronted by
federal agents in an espionage investigation.
   A ``Vremya'' announcer said a special broadcast would be made
Wednesday night to better acquaint viewers with Souther's case.
   He is the latest American to seek asylum in the Soviet Union.
   In January, Theodore and Cheryl Branch of Erie, Pa., sought
asylum during a tourist trip to the Soviet Union.
   U.S. serviceman Wade Roberts fled his West German base in April
1987 and worked as a snake catcher in Soviet Central Asia after
being granted asylum, but decided late last year to return to
America and face desertion charges.
   The Arnold Lockshin family of Houston, Texas, arrived in Moscow
in October 1986, complaining that they were harassed by the Federal
Bureau of Investigation because of their Communist Party
affiliations. They reportedly settled into a new life in Moscow and
have no plans to leave.
   Also in the Soviet Union is Edward Lee Howard, a former CIA
agent who defected in August 1986. Howard disappeared from his
Santa Fe, N.M., home in September 1985 when the FBI was about to
arrest him on suspicion of spying.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0211 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2037EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u p AM-CVN--Dukakis 2ndLd-Writethru a0764 07-19 0614</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-CVN--Dukakis, 2nd Ld-Writethru, a0764,650</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Dukakis Visits Martin Luther King Center</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Inserts 1 graf with Dukakis attending night fundraiser after
9th graf pvs, ``He wanted ...''
^By DONALD M. ROTHBERG</NOTE>
<BYLINE>AP Political Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Michael Dukakis, a day away from his party's
presidential nomination, invoked the memory of Martin Luther King
Jr. Tuesday and pledged to work to ``inspire and uplift this
country.''
   The Massachusetts Democrat and his designated running mate,
Texas Sen. Lloyd Bentsen, received a tour of the Martin Luther King
Jr. Center from the civil rights leader's widow, Coretta Scott King.
   Earlier, Dukakis, his wife, Kitty, and adviser Paul Brountas had
breakfast in the candidate's hotel suite with AFL-CIO president
Lane Kirkland and his wife, Irena.
   Dukakis' aides, sensitive to accusations that labor wields too
much influence in the Democratic Party, did not list the breakfast
session on his schedule.
   An AFL-CIO spokesman called the breakfast ``routine.''
   ``I'm sure what they talked about was how to win in November,''
said federation spokesman Rex Hardesty.
   Dukakis was spending most of the day in his suite working with
speechwriter Bill Woodward on the address he will deliver Thursday
when he accepts the presidential nomination.
   He met for nearly an hour with the Democrats' Hispanic members
of Congress, a meeting they said Dukakis asked for. Rep. Albert
Bustamante of Texas said they talked about involving Hispanics in
the campaign and in the transition team, if Dukakis is elected.
   ``He wanted to establish a dialogue with the leadership of the
Hispanic community in Congress,'' said Bustamante. ``We were real
pleased.''
   While the convention wound up its debate on the platform,
Dukakis attended a closed fund-raiser in a downtown office
building. Accompanying the Massachusetts governor was his cousin,
Academy Award-winning actress Olympia Dukakis.
   The last threat to convention unity was resolved earlier in the
day with announcement that aides to Dukakis and Jesse Jackson had
reached agreement on most platform differences.
   With Mrs. King leading the way, Dukakis and Bentsen and their
wives looked at exhibits at the King Center.
   The first one they stopped at contained mementos of the passage
of legislation establishing a national holiday commemorating King's
birthday, Jan. 15.
   One of the exhibits was a photograph of President Reagan signing
the legislation. It included an inscription, ``To Coretta King.
With respect and high esteem on a very special day.'' It was
signed, ``George Bush.''
   The Republican vice president is Dukakis' certain opponent in
the fall election.
   Other exhibits included the key to Room 307 at the Lorraine
Motel in Memphis, Tenn. King was standing on the balcony outside
that room when he was shot and killed in 1968.
   The Nobel Peace Prize, awarded to King, as well as the
Presidential Medal of Freedom, awarded him posthumously, also were
displayed.
   The final stop on the tour was King's tomb, inscribed, ``Rev.
Martin Luther King Jr. 1929 - 1968. Free at last, Free at last,
Thank God almighty I'm free at last.''
   In a brief speech that included several quotations from King,
Dukakis described the slain civil rights leader as ``a man of
action, he was a man of inspiration.''
   Bentsen was nearby, and Dukakis said that if elected he and his
vice president ``are going to do our very best, with your support,
to inspire and uplift this country.''
   Dukakis praised the convention keynote speech by Texas State
Treasurer Ann Richards and noted that neither he nor Bentsen ``have
ever won any blue ribbons for great oratory.''
   Then he added, ``And after Jesse gets through tonight, none of
us will meet the standard Ann Richards and Jesse Jackson set for
this convention.''
   Jackson was the featured convention speaker Tuesday night.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0212 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2041EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u p AM-CVN--ConventionRdp 3rdLd-Writethru 2takeOEDITORS 07-19
0382</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-CVN--Convention Rdp, 3rd Ld-Writethru, 2 takes, a0803,350-1020</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>URGENT</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Hightower scorns Bush, EMBARGOED for 9:30 pm EDT; Kennedy
remarks EMBARGOED for 9 pm; updates throughout this take</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By DAVID ESPO</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Political Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Michael Dukakis won the platform of his design
Tuesday at the Democratic National Convention while a parade of
Democrats ridiculed George Bush as a ``toothache of a man,'' and
worse. Jesse Jackson promised an emotional, late-night finale to
his remarkable primary campaign.
   Sen. Edward M. Kennedy said it was about time for another
president from Massachusetts and scorned Bush as a ``hear-nothing,
see-nothing, do-nothing vice president'' who ``wasn't there, or
can't recall, or never heard'' of the Iran arms sale.
   On that and other issues, Kennedy said, ``I think it's fair to
ask, where was George?''
   ``George Bush is the man who is never there _ and he won't be
there after the clock strikes noon on Jan. 20, 1989,'' the senator
said in a prepared address that kicked off the prime-time
speechmaking.
   Jim Hightower, the tart-tongued Texas agriculture commissioner,
called Bush a ``perpetual preppie,'' and said, ``He's a toothache
of a man, telling us to stay the course and threatening to lead us
from tweedledum to tweedledummer.''
   ``He is a man who was born on third base and thinks he hit a
triple,'' he said for good measure during what was billed as a
presentation of platform material.
   The verbal abuse came after an afternoon of platform work in
which Dukakis sought to shed the ``tax and spend'' Republican
taunt. He easily defeated Jackson's call for higher taxes on
wealthy individuals and corporations. The vote was 2,499 to 1,091.
   Dukakis prevailed as well on Jackson's call for a ``no first
use'' pledge of nuclear weapons. Jackson's call for
self-determination for Palestinians was debated and withdrawn.
Jackson forces took the inevitable defeats with equanimity; there
was little of the past emotion over Democratic ideals.
   Kennedy was introduced by his 27-year-old nephew, John F.
Kennedy Jr., son of the late president. ``For a long time I have
believed that what this country needs is another president from
Massachusetts,'' said the man who tried but failed to win the party
nomination in 1980.
   ``Now it's going to happen. President Dukakis, it has a nice
ring.''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>MORE</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0213 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2151EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-CamarenaSlaying     07-19 0364</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Camarena Slaying,0372</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Trial Gets Under Way In Drug Agent Slaying</HEAD>
<DATELINE>LOS ANGELES (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Three Mexicans went on trial Tuesday in the
abduction and killing a U.S. drug agent in 1985, and 124 potential
jurors said they could serve for the 12 weeks the judge estimated
the proceedings would take.
   The jurors who said they did not believe the lengthy trial would
be a hardship were from a group of 200 potential panelists crowded
into the courtroom of U.S. District Judge Edward Rafeedie amid
tight security.
   The potential jurors were handed a questionnaire asking, among
other things, about their exposure to publicity about the slaying
of Drug Enforcement Administration agent Enrique Camarena.
   Camarena was kidnapped and beaten to death shortly after he and
other agents uncovered a drug trafficking operation run by Rafael
Caro Quintero, who along with Ernesto Fonseca Carrillo was one of
Mexico's biggest drug kingpins, U.S. authorities have claimed in
court documents.
   Facing trial in federal court here are Raul Lopez Alvarez, 28,
Jesus Felix-Gutierrez, 38, and Rene Martin Verdugo Urquidez, 36,
who are charged in a seven-count indictment with either
participating directly in the kidnap-murder of Camarena or acting
as an accessory.
   U.S. Marshal Sam Cicchino imposed extra security, having
officers handcuff and shackle the defendants in the courtroom
whenever jurors left. Everyone entering the courthouse, including
federal employees, was required to pass through metal detectors.
   Camarena was kidnapped Feb. 7, 1985, as he left the U.S.
consulate in Guadalajara. Several weeks later his body and that of
his pilot, Alfredo Zavala-Avelar, who was kidnapped separately,
were found on a remote ranch 70 miles away.
   Camarena had been severely beaten, and documents filed on
autopsy reports in connection with the case said Camarena's jaw was
broken in several places and his head was shattered ``like an
eggshell.''
   Also charged in the case are Caro Quintero, 33; Fonseca
Carrillo, 65; Sergio Espino Verdin, 35; Armando Pavon Reyes, 35;
Albino Pazan Padilla, 27; and Ines Calderon Quintero, 33.
   Except for Calderon and Pavon, who remain at large, the other
defendants are being held by Mexican authorities. A trial has begun
in Mexico City, Assistant U.S. Attorney Jimmy Gurule said Tuesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0214 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2053EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u a AM-NielsensList 2ndLd-Writethru a0753 07-19 0805</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Nielsens List, 2nd Ld-Writethru, a0753,0880</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>List of Week's Top-Rated TV Shows</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: SUBS Item 69, ``21 Jump Street'', to CORRECT rating to 5.2,
sted 6.0. Changes ``48 Hours'' from tie at 69th place to 70th
place.</NOTE>
<HEAD>With AM-Nielsens</HEAD>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Here are the prime-time television ratings as
compiled by the A.C. Nielsen Co. for the week of July 11-17. Top 20
listings include the week's ranking, with full season-to-date
ranking in parentheses, rating for the week, and total homes.
   An ``X'' in parentheses denotes one-time-only presentation. A
rating measures the percentage of the nation's 88.6 million TV
homes.
   1. (X) ``All-Star Baseball Game,'' ABC, 20.5 rating, 18.1
million homes.
   2. (1) ``The Cosby Show,'' NBC, 17.0 rating, 15.0 million homes.
   3. (4) ``Golden Girls,'' NBC, 16.8 rating, 14.8 million homes.
   4. (2) ``A Different World,'' NBC, 16.4 rating, 14.5 million
homes.
   5. (5) ``Night Court,'' NBC, 16.3 rating, 14.4 million homes.
   6. (27) ``Hunter,'' NBC, 16.0 rating, 14.1 million homes.
   7. (3) ``Cheers,'' NBC, 15.8 rating, 13.9 million homes.
   8. (7) ``60 Minutes,'' CBS, 15.4 rating, 13.6 million homes.
   9. (16) ``Amen,'' NBC, 14.8 rating, 13.1 million homes.
   9. (21) ``NBC Monday Night Movie: The Abduction of Kari
Swenson,'' NBC, 14.8 rating, 13.1 million homes.
   11. (X) ``All Star Baseball Pre-Game,'' ABC, 14.6 rating, 12.9
million homes.
   12. (12) ``L.A. Law,'' NBC, 14.3 rating, 12.6 million homes.
   13. (9) ``Murder, She Wrote,'' CBS, 14.1 rating, 12.4 million
homes.
   14. (X) ``Unsolved Mysteries,'' NBC, 13.9 rating, 12.3 million
homes.
   15. (21) ``NBC Sunday Night Movie: Out of Time,'' NBC, 13.8
rating, 12.2 million homes.
   16. (13) ``ALF,'' NBC, 13.0 rating, 11.5 million homes.
   16. (53) ``20-20,'' ABC, 13.0 rating, 11.5 million homes.
   18. (8) ``Growing Pains,'' ABC, 12.8 rating, 11.3 million homes.
   19. (87) ``CBS Friday Movie: Dirty Harry,'' CBS, 12.2 rating,
10.8 million homes.
   20. (58) ``CBS Tuesday Movie: Kids Don't Tell,'' CBS, 12.0
rating, 10.6 million homes.
   20. (26) ``Head of the Class,'' ABC, 12.0 rating, 10.6 million
homes.
   22. (52) ``Hogan Family,'' NBC, 11.9 rating.
   23. (29) ``227,'' NBC, 11.6 rating.
   23. (38) ``ABC Sunday Night Movie: The Bad Seed,'' ABC, 11.6
rating.
   25. (X) ``Modern Medical,'' NBC, 11.5 rating.
   26. (32) ``Movie of the Week-Tuesday: Eight is Enough: A Family
Reunion,'' NBC, 11.4 rating.
   26. (31) ``Newhart,'' CBS, 11.4 rating.
   28. (X) ``ABC Monday Night Special: Drugs: Why This Plague?,''
ABC, 11.2 rating.
   29. (67) ``Wiseguy,'' CBS, 11.1 rating.
   29. (36) ``Designing Women,'' CBS, 11.1 rating.
   31. (20) ``CBS Sunday Movie: Trapped in Silence,'' CBS, 10.6
rating.
   32. (41) ``Magnum, P.I.,'' CBS 10.4 rating.
   32. (75) ``Spenser: For Hire,'' ABC, 10.4 rating.
   34. (61) ``Jake and the Fatman,'' CBS, 10.3 rating.
   35. (53) ``The Equalizer,'' CBS, 9.7 rating.
   36. (90) ``Blue Skies,'' CBS, 9.6 rating.
   36. (92) ``ABC Thursday Night Movie: The Imposter,'' ABC, 9.6
rating.
   36. (36) ``Hooperman,'' ABC, 9.6 rating.
   36. (29) ``ABC Monday Night Movie: Lace II, Part 2,''ABC, 9.6
rating.
   40. (15) ``My Two Dads,'' NBC, 9.5 rating.
   41. (28) ``Family Ties,'' NBC, 9.4 rating.
   42. (45) ``Facts of Life,'' NBC, 9.2 rating.
   43. (72) ``Full House,'' ABC, 9.0 rating.
   44. (46) ``Perfect Strangers,'' ABC, 8.7 rating.
   45. (77) ``NBC Summer Showcase: Everybody's Doing It,'' NBC, 8.6
rating.
   46. (69) ``Mr. Belvedere,'' ABC, 8.5 rating.
   47. (81) ``I Married Dora,'' ABC, 8.4 rating.
   48. (49) ``Miami Vice,'' NBC, 7.7 rating.
   49. (114) ``Hothouse,'' ABC, 7.6 rating.
   50. (102) ``TV Bloopers and Practical Jokes,'' NBC, 7.5 rating.
   50. (113) ``CBS Summer Playhouse: Baby on Board-Dr. Paradise,''
CBS, 7.5 rating.
   52. (65) ``Slap Maxwell,'' ABC, 7.3 rating.
   53. (58) ``Cagney and Lacey,'' CBS, 7.0 rating.
   53. (NA) ``America's Most Wanted,'' FOX, 7.0 rating.
   55. (77) ``Sonny Spoon,'' NBC, 6.9 rating.
   55. (65) ``Beauty and the Beast,'' CBS, 6.9 rating.
   57. (X) ``Home Free,'' NBC, 6.8 rating.
   57. (82) ``Tour of Duty,'' CBS, 6.8 rating.
   57. (105) ``Ohara,'' ABC, 6.8 rating.
   60. (61) ``Macgyver,'' ABC, 6.6 rating.
   61. (38) ``Kate & Allie,'' CBS, 6.5 rating.
   62. (96) ``Rags to Riches,'' NBC, 6.3 rating.
   62. (NA) ``Married With Children,'' FOX, 6.3 rating.
   64. (104) ``Hotel,'' ABC, 6.0 rating.
   65. (89) ``Disney Sunday Movie: Young Harry Houdini, Part 1,''
ABC, 5.7 rating.
   66. (61) ``Simon & Simon,'' CBS, 5.5 rating.
   66. (93) ``Supercarrier,'' ABC, 5.5 rating.
   68. (58) ``Frank's Place,'' CBS, 5.4 rating.
   69. (NA) ``21 Jump Street,'' FOX, 5.2 rating.
   70. (96) ``48 Hours: Le Mans Auto Race,'' CBS, 4.9 rating.
   71. (X) ``Democratic Convention Preview,'' CBS, 4.4 rating.
   71. (NA) ``Garry Shandling Show'' FOX, 4.4 rating.
   73. (NA) ``Tracey Ullman Show,'' FOX, 4.2 rating.
   74. (NA) ``Duet,'' FOX, 3.1 rating.
   75. (NA) ``Family Double Dare,'' FOX, 2.4 rating (8 p.m. EDT
Saturday).
   76. (NA) ``Family Double Dare,'' FOX, 2.3 rating (8:30 p.m. EDT
Saturday).
   77. (NA) ``Werewolf,'' FOX, 1.4 rating.
   78. (NA) ``Dirty Dozen.'' FOX, 1.2 rating.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0215 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2154EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-SriLanka     07-19 0322</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Sri Lanka,0332</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Tamil Rebels Kill Seven Indian Soliders In Sri Lanka</HEAD>
<DATELINE>COLOMBO, Sri Lanka (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Tamil militants exploded a bomb under
a patrol car in northern Sri Lanka, killing five Indian soliders,
military officials said Tuesday. They said two soldiers and a rebel
died in another clash.
   Sri Lankan military officials, who cannot be identified under
briefing rules, said the five died Monday when the
remote-controlled bomb was detonated near the northwestern port of
Mannar. They said two soldiers were injured and five others were
reported missing in the blast.
   An official at the Indian High Commission, or embassy, confirmed
the five deaths. The official also insisted on anonymity.
   A statement issued in the southern India city of Madras by the
Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam militia claimed 20 soldiers were
killed in the blast. The Tigers, largest of the rebel groups, have
exile headquarters in Madras.
   The conflicting reports could not be resolved independently.
   Indian troops imposed an indefinite curfew on the area to search
for the missing men, the Sri Lankans said.
   Mannar is about 135 miles north of Colombo.
   On Tuesday, two Indian soldiers and a Tamil rebel were killed in
an exchange of fire near the port town of Batticaloa in eastern Sri
Lanka, the military officials said.
   More than 500 Indian soldiers have been killed since India sent
an estimated 50,000 soldiers to this island nation to enforce an
Indian-sponsored peace accord signed in July 1987.
   The accord was aimed at ending a five-year guerrilla war by the
Tamils for an independent homeland in the north and east of the
island.
   India became involved because 60 million ethnic Tamils in
southern India are sympathetic to the Tamil cause in Sri Lanka.
   Tamils, mainly Hindus, make up 18 percent of Sri Lanka's 16
million population. They claim they are discriminated against by
the majority Buddhist Sinhalese. The Sinhalese control both the
military and the government.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0216 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2146EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p AM-CVN-UtahDrawings     07-19 0085</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-CVN-Utah Drawings,180</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Sweltering Delegates Win Ski Vacations</HEAD>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Democratic convention delegates, sweltering in a
summer heat wave, were offered the chance to win winter ski
vacations in the Rocky Mountains.
   In nightly drawings designed to boost tourism, the Utah
delegation was handing out $10,000 in prizes that included ski
vacations and white-water river expeditions.
   The delegation launched the promotion Tuesday by giving away
four prizes, including a fly fishing trip on the Green River to
delegate George Collins of Laurel, Del.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0217 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2158EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-Paraquat-Marijuana     07-19 0398</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Paraquat-Marijuana,0411</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Authorities Spray Paraquat on Wild Marijuana</HEAD>
<DATELINE>WHEELER, Texas (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Officials sprayed the herbicide paraquat
Tuesday to destroy marijuana on about 16 acres of private land, an
escalation in the federal drug war that environmentalists attacked
as dangerous.
   A Drug Enforcement Administration agent supervised spraying of a
remote area about six miles east of this small Panhandle town,
about 100 miles northeast of Amarillo, said Wheeler County Sheriff
Lonnie Miller.
   ``This is the first time that the DEA has been involved in a
spray'' on private land, said Phil Jordan, a Dallas-based DEA
supervisor. ``From what I understand, there have been some state
authorities that have eradicated before, but never with DEA.''
   Using four-wheel-drive vehicles and backpacks, authorities
sprayed paraquat on about 50,000 plants growing wild on six private
tracts, Miller said. The spraying was not done by aircraft to
protect the environment, Jordan said.
   The spraying was the beginning of a three-day federal Operation
Stop Crop, Texas Department of Public Safety spokesman Mike Cox
said.
   Last week, U.S. Attorney General Edwin Meese said marijuana has
become the No. 1 cash crop in the United States and called for a
vast federal-state effort to eradicate the drug.
   Cox said the owners of the land involved had not cultivated the
marijuana and have cooperated fully with authorities. But he said
the county's wild marijuana, which apparently was planted years ago
to produce hemp for rope, had been discovered by ``entrepreneurs.''
   He said signs were posted to warn people of sprayed areas.
   Hank Graddy, national chairman of the Sierra Club's agricultural
committee, said spraying paraquat is risky even when done manually.
   ``If they are going to go to the trouble of walking the land, it
would seem to me that using a hatchet ... would be just as easy,''
Graddy said from his home in Midway, Ky.
   The Sierra Club, a private environmental group, maintains that
spraying paraquat is dangerous to humans and animals in the
vicinity. But much of the debate over paraquat has focused on
evidence that it poses serious health risks to marijuana smokers.
   The DEA issued a report in 1986 calling the toxic herbicide's
use to kill marijuana safe and reasonable as long as guidelines are
followed to avoid spraying in the rain or high wind or near
buildings, and to make sure the pot is not harvested before the
paraquat destroys it.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0218 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2123EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i AM-Canada-Afghan 1stLd-Writethru   07-19 0390</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Canada-Afghan, 1st Ld-Writethru,a0697,0400</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Soviet Deserter Returns to Moscow</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: New grafs 1-6 UPDATE with Tass report arriving deserter in
Moscow. Picks up 4th pvs, ``I want ...</NOTE>
<DATELINE>TORONTO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A Red Army deserter from the war in Afghanistan
went home to the Soviet Union after complaining in Canada of
homesickness, the Soviet Embassy in Ottawa said Tuesday.
   Nikolai Golovin, 25, left Montreal for Moscow on Monday on an
Aeroflot flight.
   Tass said he held a news conference after arriving in Moscow
Tuesday. The offical Soviet news agency quoted him as saying he
wanted to show ``nothing has happened to me after my return home.''
   Golovin was one of five Soviet soldiers who were captured and
held by Afghan rebels, then spirited out of Afghanistan by Canadian
officials in November 1986.
   Tass quoted Golovin as saying ``fear of possible punishment'' in
the Soviet Union is keeping his colleagues in Canada.
   He had been working part-time at a meat processing plant in
Kitchener, Ontario, but complained that he never felt at home in
Canada.
   ``I want to go back to where everyone speaks Russian,'' Golovin
said in an interview with the Kitchener-Waterloo Record. ``I just
can't get used to life here,'' he said in the interview published
Tuesday.
   Golovin said he wants to see his sister and ailing mother and to
find work as an electrician in his home town of Ulyanovsk, a city
on the Volga River 500 miles east of Moscow. He said his mother had
written to him begging him to come home, the Record said.
   When he first reached Canada, Golovin told reporters he could
never go back home. ``It would be Siberia or the firing squad,'' he
said.
   The five Red Army soldiers earlier rejected an initial offer to
return to the Soviet Union extended by Gennadi Samsonov, second
secretary of the Soviet Embassy. But the deserters received letters
from the embassy last month offering an amnesty, the Record
reported.
   Golovin's decision left his four comrades ``horrified'' and too
upset to talk, said Maria Blagoveshchensky of the Russian Aid
Society, which spent years working to secure their release.
   She said Vladislav Naumov, Vadim Plotnikov, Igor Kovalchuk and
Sergei Busov are working in Toronto and don't plan to leave Canada.
``It's very hard to believe a deserter will be welcomed with open
arms,'' she said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0219 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2159EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-SpaceShuttle 2ndLd-Writethru a0733 07-19 0692</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Space Shuttle, 2nd Ld-Writethru, a0733,0709</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Engineers May Have Had Clue To Space Shuttle Leak In January</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: SUBS 10th graf, `He said...', to change term to tightened
sted `torqued.' Picks up 11th graf, `These two...'.</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By HOWARD BENEDICT</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Aerospace Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A pressure drop detected in January
might have alerted engineers to the small leak that now threatens a
long delay in the next space shuttle flight, but there is no
conclusive evidence that workers acted improperly, the launch
director said Tuesday.
   Director Bob Sieck said a search of paperwork shows that a
pressure check was made on the oxidizer tank manifold in an engine
compartment before Christmas, and a second reading was taken about
two weeks later.
   ``There was a pressure drop of about 16 pounds per square inch
between the two data points,'' he said in an interview.
   A tiny leak of nitrogen tetroxide gas was detected in an engine
compartment of space shuttle Discovery on the launch pad Friday.
Engineers have been puzzling over how to fix the leak without
removing the shuttle from the pad, a move that could delay the
planned early September launch by two months.
   The leak is in a fitting on a one-half inch line leading to an
oxidizer tank, the same area where the pressure drop was detected
in January.
   ``We wish we had found it earlier,'' Forrest S. McCartney,
director of the Kennedy Space Center, told a news conference. ``If
we had found it when it was accessible, there would have been no
problem. But it's in an inaccessible place, and we don't know what
we're going to do about it.
   ``We've got people looking at the prudent and safe thing to
do,'' he said. ``What ever course we take there will be no
compromise in flight safety.
   ``The odds are 50-50 on a rollback (of Discovery),'' McCartney
said.
   ``We are reviewing all procedures and documentation and
equipment associated with that event,'' Sieck said of the January
finding. ``We are looking at the people who performed the test.''
   He said Kennedy Space Center procedures require that any leak be
tightened and checked properly.
   ``These two data points may still have been within
specifications,'' he said. ``And I wouldn't preclude the fact that
we have other data that says the integrity of the joint was
confirmed.
   ``Until a final review it is pure speculation that a requirement
was violated and not reported,'' Sieck said.
   He said engineers are considering a number of options for fixing
the leak.
   ``We're looking at a fix in place, if that's possible,'' he
said. ``But we would have to assess it as safe and reliable.''
   To do it properly, he said, probably would require removing the
22-foot-tall engine compartment, a difficult task never before done
on the pad.
   Another option would be to take Discovery to a hangar and as
soon as possible replace the compartment with one being prepared
for a shuttle Atlantis flight in November. Such a move would
eliminate the need to wait for a leak repair and could cut the
launch delay time to about a month.
   ``And I wouldn't preclude a quick fix with some old-fashioned
Yankee ingenuity,'' he said.
   Flying with the leak as is a possibility, ``but we would have to
assure ourselves that it would be absolutely safe,'' Sieck said.
   Nitrogen tetroxide combines with a fuel to power the steering
engines in flight.
   If the leak continued in orbit, it ideally would vaporize and
drift off into space. However, the possibility of it hitting a cold
surface might cause it to vaporize and pool in the engine pod,
where fire could occur if it somehow contacted the fue.
   Meanwhile, NASA moved ahead with a plan to test-fire Discovery's
three main engines on the launch pad on July 28. The main engines
are separate from the steering engine system containing the leak.
   Discovery is being grooomed to make the first shuttle mission
since Challenger exploded Jan. 28, 1986, killing the seven crew
members. Five veteran shuttle astronauts are to make the four-day
flight during which they will release a communications satellite
and conduct experiments.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0220 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2128EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i AM-Britain-Armada 1stLd-Writethru   07-19 0664</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Britain-Armada, 1st Ld-Writethru,a0686,0681</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>England's Beacon Party Remembers The Armada</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: New grafs 1-8 UPDATE with beacons lighted, details. Picks up
9th graf pvs, Queen Elizabeth ...</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By GRAHAM HEATHCOTE</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>LONDON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A chain of beacons burst into flame across England
on Tuesday night in memory of the fiery warning to the nation when
the Spanish Armada was sighted exactly 400 years ago.
   Spanish Ambassador Don Jose de la Bellacasa, letting bygones be
bygones, used a long-handled, flaming torch to fire the first
beacon on a damp and drizzly night.
   ``Two old countries like ours have to build, on our history,
better understanding and friendship in the future,'' he told The
Associated Press.
   The event was shown live on national TV as the ambassador lit
the fuel in a big iron brazier atop an oak pole at the Kynance
headland. The area near Lizard village in the southwest tip of
Cornwall is where local people say the Armada was first sighted.
   The lighting was followed swiftly by the chain of beacons and
wigwam-shaped bonfires that extended to the Scottish border, 430
miles away.
   ``I invited the ambassador to light the first beacon because I
thought it was about time, after 400 years, that we buried this old
hatchet in a symbolic way,'' said Bruno Peek, who organized the
event and called it ``Fire Over England.''
   The Spanish Armada's 125 ships carried 19,000 soldiers, 8,000
sailors, 2,000 galley slaves and 180 monks and friars, sent by
Philip II, the Roman Catholic king of Spain, to overthrow England's
Protestant Queen Elizabeth I.
   Legend has it that Elizabeth's favorite captain, Sir Francis
Drake, was involved in a lawn-bowling game in Plymouth as the great
fleet approached and was so unflustered that he insisted on
finishing the game before going to his ship.
   Queen Elizabeth II is to visit Plymouth on Thursday to join
Armada festivities in the city from which Drake sailed into action.
   Everyone seemed to be in on the fun _ even the Post Office,
which issued 40 million stamps depicting galleons and cannon smoke.
   A breakfast cereal company offered ``Armada Treasure Replica
Coins.'' The replicas are copied from coins found in Armada ships
wrecked by gales as the great fleet struggled home after failing to
link up with a Spanish invasion army waiting in the Netherlands.
   Historians have argued long over whether the English or the
gales defeated the Armada.
   ``The weather did help but the defeat was a great victory for
England because it raised the hearts of men in dark hours,'' said
James Mildren, a historian specializing in Armada lore.
   Tamsin Thomas, responsible for 10 of Cornwall's 20 fires, said
the villagers in Lizard had been celebrating all day, as they have
done every anniversary for four centuries.
   She said the Kynance beacon, mounted on a 30-foot oak pole, had
a trial firing Tuesday morning and burned for an hour with a bright
orange flame.
   ``We are also having 2,000 pounds ($3,360 dollars) worth of
fireworks and I was astonished to find when we opened the boxes
that they were made in Spain,'' Mrs. Thomas said.
   Frank Kitchen, a schoolmaster who has studied the matter, said
the early-warning system of beacons and fires was unique to England
and could muster up to 30,000 men within two hours.
   He said the procedure lasted to the 19th century, when there was
a threat of invasion by Napoleon's armies, and there is a record of
one sentinel setting his beacon alight and frying sausages.
   ``In setting up the new beacons, we worked from secret
Elizabethan diagrams which showed pitch at the center, covered by
anything dry and combustible, topped by a thatch to keep out rain
and the whole thing covered with brushwood,'' said Warren Davis of
the National Trust, which looks after historic sites and buildings.
   ``The trick was to build a fire that would quickly produce a
flame at night and a lot of smoke in the daytime.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0221 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2136EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i AM-Peru 1stLd-Writethru a0823 07-19 0589</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Peru, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0823,0606</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Five Wounded, 270 Arrested as National Strike Turns Violent</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Two grafs SUB for 3rd graf pvs, Also on ... UPDATING with
police confirmation of attack, CORRECTING attack site. Picks up 4th
graf pvs, The 48-hour ...</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By ROBERT SEAVEY</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>LIMA, Peru (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Riot police wounded five people and arrested
at least 270 protesters Tuesday when a nationwide general strike
flared into street clashes and induced leftist guerrilla violence,
officials and strike leaders said.
   Three of the wounded were strikers and two were children,
reports said.
   Also on Tuesday, rebels of the Maoist-oriented Shining Path
organization killed six police defenders and wounded five in an
attack against a police post in Pozuzo, a jungle town 170 miles
east of Lima, police said.
   The night before, officers reported, guerrillas shot dead a
policeman in the nearby town of Tochache.
   The 48-hour general strike began on Tuesday to protest
government economic policy.
   Strikers and student sympathizers blocked main arteries leading
into Lima with bonfires and rocks but were driven off by police
using tear gas and firing water cannons, reporters said. Police
quickly reopened the roads.
   Officers said a train carrying workers to their jobs in Lima
from Chosica, 25 miles away, was halted midway when saboteurs blew
up a small section of track. The train stopped in time and no one
was hurt.
   The communist-led General Confederation of Peruvian Workers said
80 percent of factories, stores and businesses in this capital city
were closed Tuesday.
   Lima Mayor Jorge del Castillo called the strike a failure and
said business activity was almost normal.
   Most banks and government offices in downtown Lima opened late
with about half their workers, the government said, and school
attendence was low. It blamed the absenteeism on an estimated 50
percent cut in bus transportation.
   About half the shops and stores in downtown Lima remained
shuttered.
   The confederation claims 90 percent of this Andean nation's 1.6
million unionized workers as members. It called the strike to
protest government austerity measures imposed this month that
include food price increases ranging from 20 percent to 100 percent.
   It is the third general strike against the 3-year-old government
of President Alan Garcia, a Social Democrat. The development comes
with the economy in a tailspin, a steep fiscal deficit and an
inflation rate estimated to hit 400 percent in 1988.
   The government declared the strike illegal and dispatched 8,000
police and army troops to patrol Lima and ride public buses to
ensure security.
   Police said 220 protesters were arrested in sporadic clashes in
Lima.
   In Huancayo, 125 miles east of Lima, 50 demonstrators were
arrested in a march and a 10-year-old boy was injured by a tear gas
cannister, police said.
   Strike leader Alberto Ramirez said police shot and wounded three
protesters and a child during a march in Juliaca, 600 miles
southeast of Lima. His charges could not be confirmed with police.
   Radio Programas, Peru's leading news station, said business
activity was greatly reduced in the key highland capitals of
Huancayo, Cuzco and Puno, while interstate trucking was virtually
halted nationwide.
   An indefinite strike by miners entered its second day Tuesday,
paralyzing most mining across the nation, strike officials said.
   Police said leftist guerrillas supporting the strike since
Monday exploded a car bomb in Lima, wounding three people, and
launched bomb attacks against buildings in other cities, but no
reports emerged of other injuries.
   Shining Path guerrillas blew up power pylons and blacked out
Ayacucho, 225 miles southeast of Lima.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0222 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2233EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-Biaggi-Wedtech     07-19 0368</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Biaggi-Wedtech,0379</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Testimony Ends in Four-Month Wedtech Corruption Trial</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JOHN M. DOYLE</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The defense rested in the Wedtech corruption
trial of Rep. Mario Biaggi and six others, ending 19 weeks of
testimony.
   Prosecutors, who did not call any rebuttal witnesses, were
slated to begin their closing statement to the jury Wednesday
morning at federal court in Manhattan.
   Biaggi, 70, a 10-term Bronx Democrat; former Bronx Borough
President Stanley Simon; and five others, including Biaggi's eldest
son, are charged with turning the Wedtech Corp. into a racketeering
enterprise that paid out millions of dollars in bribes to obtain
no-bid defense contracts.
   A now-bankrupt Bronx defense contractor, Wedtech grew from a
small machine shop into a $100 million concern through a Small
Business Administration program that awarded government contracts
to minority-owned businesses without competitive bidding.
   Prosecutors claimed Biaggi and other defendants extracted cash
or stock from Wedtech in return for political assistance.
   But the defense maintained that four corrupt Wedtech executives,
who testified for the government in exchange for leniency, had
links to Reagan White House insiders like Attorney General Edwin
Meese III and did not need help from Biaggi and Simon, both
Democrats.
   U.S. District Judge Constance Baker Motley denied a defense
request, however, to call Meese as a witness, saying his actions
had nothing to do with the guilt or innocence of those on trial.
Meese has not been charged with any wrongdoing.
   After the defense called its last witness, prosecutors decided
against putting on a rebuttal case after Motley ruled against them
on their request to present evidence to the jury about Biaggi's
conviction for obstructing justice in an unrelated case last fall
in Brooklyn.
   The trial, which began March 11 with opening arguments to the
jury, generated more than 18,000 pages of transcript from the
testimony of more than 130 witnesses.
   Biaggi, his son, Richard, and Bernard Ehrlich, the congressman's
former law partner, did not take the witness stand in their own
defense, but the other defendants did.
   Biaggi had intended to take the stand himself until Motley gave
prosecutors wide latitude to cross-examine the congressman about
his past including the Brooklyn case, which is under appeal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0223 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2215EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u p BC-CVN--JacksonText 1stadd   07-19 0487</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-CVN--Jackson Text, 1st add,500</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>For release at 10:19 p.m. EDT</NOTE>
<HEAD>ATLANTA: might live.</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   Dr. Martin Luther King lies only a few miles from us.
   Tonight he must feel good as he looks down upon us. We sit here
together, a rainbow _ the sons and daughters of slavemasters and
the sons and daughters of slaves sitting together around a common
table, to decide the direction of our party and our country. His
heart would be full tonight.
   As a testament to the struggles of those who have gone before;
as a legacy for those who will come after; as a tribute to the
endurance, the patience, the courage of our forefathers and
mothers; as an assurance that their prayers are being answered,
their work was not in vein, and hope is eternal; tomorrow night my
name will go into nomination for the presidency of the United
States.
   We meet tonight at a crossroads, a point of decision.
   Shall we expand, be inclusive, find unity and power; or suffer
division and impotence.
   We come to Atlanta, the cradle of the old south, the crucible of
the new.
   Tonight there is a sense of celebration because we have moved,
fundamentally, from racial battlegrounds by law, to economic common
ground, with the challenge to move to moral higher ground.
   Common ground!
   Think of Jerusalem _ the intersection where many trails met. A
small village that became the birthplace for three great religions
_ Judaism, Christianity and Islam.
   Why was this village so blessed? Because it provided a
crossroads where different people, different cultures, and
different civilizations could meet and find common ground.
   When people come together, flowers always flourish and the air
is rich with the aroma of a new spring.
   Take New York, the dynamic metropolis. What makes New York so
special?
   It is the invitation of the Statue of Liberty _ give me your
tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free.
   Not restricted by English only.
   Many people, many cultures, many languages _ with one thing in
common, the yearn to breathe free.
   Common ground!
   And tonight in Atlanta, for the first time in this century we
convene in the South.
   A state where governors once stood in school house doors. Where
Julian Bond was denied his seat in the state legislature because of
his conscientious objection to the Vietnam War.
   A city that, through its five black universities, has graduated
more black students than any city in the world.
   Atlanta, now a modern intersection of the new south.
   Common ground!
   That is the challenge to our party tonight.
   Left wing. Right wing. Progress will come not through boundless
liberalism nor static conservatism, but at the critical mass of
mutual survival. It takes two wings to fly.
   The Bible teaches that when lions and the lambs can lie down
together and none will be afraid, there will be peace in the
valley.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>MORE</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0224 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2220EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-GuatemalanPrisoner     07-19 0164</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Guatemalan Prisoner,0167</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Woman Detained in Guatemala Arrives Home</HEAD>
<DATELINE>INDIANTOWN, Fla. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A U.S. resident returned safely Tuesday
from Guatemala, where she was imprisoned for 10 days and
interrogated by police as a suspected leftist guerrilla, a Roman
Catholic priest said.
   Maria Elena Gaspar Xuncax, 21, had disappeared earlier this
month after returning to her homeland for a visit.
   A teacher's aide who acted as her school's liaison to the
estimated 1,000 Guatemalan Indians living here, Ms. Gaspar told her
family in a frantic telephone call that she had been accused of
hijacking a bus two years ago even though she had been in the
United States since 1981.
   Her family immediately flew to Guatemala and won her freedom
with the help of the United Nations High Commission on Refugees.
   Ms. Gaspar traveled home alone Tuesday, and her family was
expected to follow her shortly, said the Rev. Frank O'Loughlin,
director of refugee services for the Roman Catholic diocese of Palm
Beach.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0225 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2223EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p AM-CVN--BushVideo     07-19 0351</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-CVN--Bush Video,360</2ND_LINE>
<BYLINE>Sharp Attack Prepared by Bush Backers Even Before It's Official
^By MIKE GLOVER</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Even before Michael Dukakis officially claims the
Democratic presidential nomination, George Bush's backers were
circulating a harshly critical video charging that Dukakis ``seems
to challenge American patriotism itself.''
   The 20-minute video being distributed in the Democratic National
Convention complex hits Dukakis on issues ranging from the death
penalty to tax increases to saying the pledge of allegiance in
school.
   It goes to great lengths to link Dukakis with former President
Jimmy Carter and contains some of the most strident assaults
launched to date between Bush and Dukakis.
   ``But it's not just military muscle that Dukakis opposes,'' a
narrator says. ``He seems to challenge American patriotism itself.''
   In a statement distributed by a group called Americans for Bush
_ described as an ``independent project of the National Security
PAC'' _ the Bush backers said it was targeted at conservative
Democrats who have backed President Reagan in the past two
elections.
   The theme of the video is ``experience vs. experiments'' and
takes Dukakis to task for a prison furlough program ``that released
criminals for the weekend'' and attacked him for vetoing a bill
dealing with the pledge of allegiance in schools.
   ``In his home state of Massachusetts, birthplace of the American
revolution, Dukakis vetoed a bill requiring schoolchildren to
pledge allegiance to our flag,'' the narrator said.
   In one segment, the camera pans over the field of Democratic
presidential candidates, scanning all of the group but freezing on
Dukakis and Jesse Jackson. Most polls taken when the vice
presidential nomination was still an open question showed Jackson
badly damaging Democratic hopes of winning the election.
   Organizers of the effort said they had scheduled a preview of
the video at the Georgia World Congress Center, adjacent to the
convention hall and home base for media organizations covering the
convention.
   Floyd Brown, who described himself as a consultant to the group,
said Democratic National Committee officials halted the preview.
   DNC spokesman Mike McCurry did not immediately return two phone
calls seeking comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0226 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2224EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p AM-CVN--JerryBrown     07-19 0266</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-CVN--Jerry Brown,260</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Former Governor Says He's Not Left Out, Still Eyes Comeback</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By DOUG WILLIS</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Former California Gov. Jerry Brown said Tuesday
he still hopes to make a political comeback ``when there's an
opportunity ... (and) if it's appropriate.''
   The 50-year-old former governor made a brief appearance before
the California delegation to the Democratic National Convention to
help launch the 1990 campaign for state treasurer of his sister,
Kathleen.
   But Brown said he would probably make few, if any, other public
appearances this year because he is concentrating on completing a
book on his political experiences and his views of future political
directions of the nation. He has spent much of the last few years
traveling abroad.
   His brief and low-key appearance contrasted sharply with 1976,
when the then-38-year-old governor was the final presidential
contender to withdraw from the race and endorse Jimmy Carter's
successful candidacy.
   Brown, who gave up the governor's office in 1982 after two terms
for an unsuccessful campaign for the U.S. Senate, said ``it's
possible'' he might run for the U.S. Senate in 1992 if Democrat
Alan Cranston retires.
   Asked whether he might run for governor again, he replied, ``you
shouldn't un-expect it,'' but said that shouldn't be construed as a
trial balloon or announcement.
   ``It's kind of hard to be in it (public office) 12 or 13 years,
and be known by 95 percent of the people and know all the players
and be used to that kind of life and not do it. You actually have
to work at it,'' Brown said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0227 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2225EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u p AM-CVN--Hightower 1stLd-Writethru a0815 07-19 0345</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-CVN--Hightower, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0815,350</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Hightower: Bush is a `Toothache of a Man'</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: SUBS 3rd graf bgng, `Hightower's remarks,' with 1 graf to
UPDATE with speech delivered, reax</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By KEN HERMAN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   George Bush is a ``toothache of a man'' who
doesn't care about the problems of anyone but the rich, Texas
Agriculture Commissioner Jim Hightower told delegates to the
Democratic National Convention on Tuesday.
   ``George has always been in another world,'' Hightower said of
the vice president, who has this year's Republican presidential
nomination locked up. ``His is an upper-class world in which wealth
is given to you at birth. He is a man who was born on third base
and thinks he hit a triple.''
   Hightower's speech during platform debate drew cheers and laughs
from the delegates.
   It was the second night in a row that a Texan hurled insults at
Bush, who claims a Houston hotel suite as his legal residence.
State Treasurer Ann Richards skewered Bush in her keynote address
Monday night, causing delegates to roar with delight when she said
the vice president was ``born with a silver foot in his mouth.''
   Hightower, who supported Jesse Jackson in this year's Democratic
primaries, honed in on Bush early in his speech.
   ``Now here comes George Herbert Walker Bush II, perpetual
preppie. He's of the Kennebunkport Bushes, don't you know. He's a
toothache of a man, telling us to stay the course and threatening
to lead us from tweedledum to tweedledumber,'' Hightower said.
   He asked delegates to look at their family finances and see
whether the Reagan-Bush policies have made life better. Hightower
said the wealthy have benefited.
   ``Bush's elite are out at the yacht club tonight, sitting about
in their Guccis and Puccis, sipping a delightfully fruity and
frisky white wine, saying, `Play it again, George,''' he said.
   He said Democrats can help family farmers, small businesses and
working families that have suffered under the GOP administration.
   ``Let George Bush side with the Rockefellers. We Democrats will
side with the little fellers,'' he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0228 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2250EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p AM-CVN--JFKJr 1stLd-Writethru a0659 07-19 0453</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-CVN--JFK Jr, 1st Ld - Writethru, a0659,450</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>JFK's Son Makes Political Debut At Convention</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: New thruout with speech delivered, ovation.</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By CHRISTOPHER CALLAHAN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   John F. Kennedy Jr., who has avoided publicity in
the years since his father's assassination, jumped into the
national political spotlight Tuesday by introducing his uncle,
Massachusetts Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, at the Democratic National
Convention.
   The 27-year-old law student, who is still remembered by many
Americans as the brave 3-year-old saluting his slain father,
received a two-minute standing ovation as he appeared before the
delegates.
   ``So many of you came into public service because of him,''
young Kennedy told the cheering crowd during the prime-time TV
appearance. ``In a very real sense, because of you, he is with us
still.''
   ``I'm not a political leader, but I can speak for those of my
age who've been inspired by Teddy to give their energy and their
ideas to their community and not just themselves,'' Kennedy said of
his uncle. ``He has shown that our hope is not lost idealism but a
realistic possibility.''
   The appearance has prompted speculation over whether the son of
John F. Kennedy will be the next member of the new generation of
Kennedys to enter the family business of politics.
   ``I think he'll be involved in public affairs one way or the
other in the future, not necessarily running for office,'' the
senator said earlier this week. ``I think he'll use his talents to
try to make some sort of contribution.''
   The senator said it was his idea _ not John's _ to have his
nephew speak before the convention. Kennedy said he received ``an
instantaneous positive reaction'' from his nephew.
   John Kennedy, a graduate of Brown University, is a third-year
law student at New York University.
   Young Kennedy has fought to keep his life private _ ``He simply
does not do interviews,'' said Kennedy spokeswoman Melody Miller _
but is often portrayed as a heartthrob in tabloid photos.
   The uncle and nephew are but two of many Kennedys attending the
convention.
   Sen. Kennedy's youngest son, Patrick, a Providence College
student who is running for the Rhode Island House of
Representatives, is a Dukakis delegate from Rhode Island. Also here
are the senator's other two children, Teddy Jr. and Kara, who are
running his re-election campaign in Massachusetts.
   Kathleen Kennedy Townsend, the oldest daughter of the late
Robert F. Kennedy and an unsuccessful congressional candidate in
1986, is a Dukakis delegate from Maryland.
   Her brother, Rep. Joseph P. Kennedy II of Massachusetts, is also
here, as are brother Michael and sisters Kerry and Courtney Kennedy
Ruhe. Also on hand: cousins from the Lawford, Smith and Shriver
families.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0229 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2243EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u p AM-CVN--Bentsen 1stLd-Writethru a0716 07-19 0747</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-CVN--Bentsen, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0716,750</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Bentsen Tries to Sell Texans on Dukakis</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: SUBS 4th graf pvs bgng, `Texas is,' with 3 grafs to UPDATE
with Kemp as favored opponent; SUBS last graf pvs with 2 grafs to
reflect revised travel schedule</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By STEVEN KOMAROW</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Sen. Lloyd Bentsen, showing success in selling
himself to Jesse Jackson and other black leaders, switched hats
Tuesday and worked to sell Texans on Michael Dukakis.
   ``Here we have running on the ticket a man from New England, a
governor from New England,'' Bentsen told Texas delegates he hosted
for brunch.
   ``But you know he talks the same language we talk in Texas,
because he talks the language of jobs, and growth, and housing and
health care, and education for all of the people,'' he said.
   Economic growth is a campaign theme of one of Vice President
George Bush's possible running mates, Rep. Jack Kemp of New York.
But Bentsen said Tuesday night he'd rather run against Kemp than
the other lawmaker frequently mentioned for Bush's ticket,
Bentsen's Senate colleague and friend Bob Dole, R-Kan.
   Kemp, a longtime supporter of supply-side economics, was
``extremely vulnerable'' to criticism, Bentsen said in an interview
on CNN Tuesday night.
   Bentsen used the theme of economic growth at length before his
home-state gathering. Texas is considered a major campaign
battleground this year and was a big reason Bentsen was chosen for
the ticket was to win that state.
   Bentsen said Texas has ``taken a hit'' economically during the
Reagan administration, and he said Dukakis was a man who can help
create jobs and who believed that ``government can be of help'' in
restoring the economy.
   The room was filled with people wearing Bentsen buttons,
including many who had supported Jackson. Rep. Mickey Leland,
Jackson's state chairman in Texas, was on the dais with Bentsen and
helped lead the applause.
   But some Jackson delegates were still disappointed that Dukakis
had not chosen their candidate instead of Bentsen. State Rep. Al
Edwards of Houston, invited to sit at the head table, did not
attend.
   ``I have no problem with Senator Bentsen, but right now I'm
campaigning for Jackson,'' Edwards said. ``I'm sure before it's
over we'll sit at a lot of head tables together.''
   Bentsen was not confronted Tuesday by the Jackson placards which
greeted him Monday when he began his series of meetings with state
delegations. And he received his strongest endorsement yet from
Jackson.
   Jackson, Dukakis and Bentsen appeared at a civil rights
breakfast together, and afterward, Jackson told The Associated
Press that Bentsen had demonstrated to him a sensitivity for
minorities. Jackson had not previously spoken much about Bentsen
since Dukakis selected his running mate last week.
   When Jackson and Dukakis made a campaign unity pact Monday,
Bentsen was called in and then joined the others at a news
conference.
   ``What was significant was his perception, his understanding of
what had to be done to broaden the base for inclusion,'' Jackson
said.
   ``Coming out of Texas where you have to reach out to become a
U.S. senator, you necessarily have to deal with the blacks, browns,
the farmers and ranchers, the workers,'' Jackson said. ``Your
orientation becomes inclusive and expansive because it is the only
way to win. And the way he relates ... is indicative of his
experience.''
   Bentsen praised Jackson as someone who ``has acted more on his
own for the cause of freedom and justice, more than the Reagan
administration has been able to achieve in the last eight years.''
   The Texan also received a warm welcome Tuesday at a noontime
rally with Dukakis and Coretta Scott King, widow of slain civil
rights leader Martin Luther King Jr., at the Martin Luther King
Center.
   Dukakis highlighted Bentsen's long civil rights record. ``He was
one of two Southern congressmen who voted against the poll tax in
1949,'' he said.
   Much of Bentsen's day was spent in private meetings, preparing
for his acceptance speech Thursday night and organizing a campaign
staff for the months ahead.
   Dukakis and Bentsen planned to leave Atlanta together Friday for
Houston as the first stop in a three-day cross-country swing to
launch their campaign.
   From Texas, the candidates will travel to California, then to
North Dakota and Missouri on Saturday. They'll visit Missouri and
Pennsylvania on Sunday before Dukakis returns to Boston on Sunday
evening. It was still being decided whether Bentsen would go to
Boston with Dukakis or return to Washington.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0230 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2243EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u a AM-WildfiresRdp 3rdLd-Writethru a0821 07-19 0891</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Wildfires Rdp, 3rd Ld-Writethru, a0821,0910</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Wyoming Fire Close to Yellowstone; Alaska Fires Allowed to Burn</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Leads with 3 grafs to UPDATE with Calif. crew forced to take
refuge from fire, delete outdated reference to all fires in Oregon
being contained, picking up 4th graf pvs `The northern...'. SUBS
final graf to add detail on new Oregon fire.</NOTE>
<HEAD>LaserPhotos SC4, GJ1</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By ANNE BUCKLEY</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   Crews used natural barriers to keep a 14,000-acre wildfire in
Wyoming's Teton Wilderness from reaching summer homes Tuesday,
while officials in Alaska left fires that have charred more than a
half-million acres to die on their own.
   Firefighters in northwestern Colorado got a little break in the
weather, which helped contain all but two of 15 fires that consumed
more than 20,000 acres of range and pinon juniper. Fires also
burned Tuesday in California, Utah and Oregon, but none threatened
populated areas and most were small.
   A blaze swept over a firefighting crew near Jackson, Calif.,
about 45 miles southeast of Sacramento, but the workers surivived
by taking refuge in portable fireproof shelters, said Karen
Terrill, a spokeswoman for the California Department of Forestry.
   The northern edge of the lightning-sparked fire in Wyoming was
closing in on Yellowstone National Park, but was allowed to burn
since it's on U.S. Forest Service land and not a threat. However,
550 firefighters used natural firebreaks like streams and rock
formations to keep the southern border of the fire from reaching a
small colony of summer homes in Buffalo Valley, 12 miles away.
   Officials said unless heavy rains fall soon, it's likely the
fire will burn until snow puts it out no later than September.
   In Alaska, five major fires accounted for almost 450,000 acres
of the total. Nearly a third went up in a blaze near Livengood,
about 60 miles northwest of Fairbanks, said U.S. Bureau of Land
Management spokeswoman Sue Mitchell.
   Rugged territory in the Wyoming fire, at an elevation of about
8,500 feet and in prime grizzly bear habitat, has complicated
firefighting.
   ``We're not only shuttling crews (by helicopter) to the
fireline, but during the day we're moving the crews around,'' Fire
Information Officer Doug Huntington said Tuesday. ``Normally they
would be able to walk from point to point, but because of the
rugged terrain and downed timber ... we're moving the crews around.
If we don't do that, they're worn out by the time they arrive on
the spot where they're supposed to be fighting the fire.''
   The crews have little more than picks, shovels and the water
tanks they carry on their backs to fight the flames.
   In Yellowstone, to the north of the Teton Wilderness, officials
monitored several fires covering 11,000 acres.
   While all Yellowstone's roads and front-country campsites were
open, campfire restrictions were imposed throughout the park's
back-country, where fire danger forced the closing of some
campsites.
   Alaska officials generally let the fires burn unless they
threaten lives or property, critical wildlife habitat or commercial
timber, said Tom Frey, fire coordinator for the Alaska Fire Service.
   The fires open up dense stands of unproductive black spruce,
said Frey. Natural revegetation of burned areas with willow, grass
and berries provides food for many of Alaska's big game species.
Animals usually move away from the flames well before they are
endangered, and few die in the fires.
   Yellowstone officials also tend to let fires burn themselves out.
   ``We've had several questions on that, and the majority are
probably coming from some local guides and outfitters,'' said
Yellowstone fire information officer Doug Huntington. ``They're for
a good reason concerned that this fire would destroy some prime
habitat where they take hunters in for big game hunts, and packers
in for some hikes.''
   The Forest Service held a public meeting in Jackson to let the
outfitters and guides discuss their concerns and so the agency can
explain its fire management decisions, Huntington said.
   The low humidity and dry brush fueled the Colorado fires, which
caused no structural damage despite threatening the town of
Dinosaur and the headquarters of Dinosaur National Monument on
Sunday.
   Only one injury was reported, on Tuesday, when a firefighter at
the Flatiron fire near Rifle got cinders in his eyes. Fire
information officer Larry Dove said the man was treated at a local
hospital and released.
   The Colorado fires were being fueled by dry brush, high
temperatures and low humidity, officials said.
   In Northern California, fires that apparently had been set were
contained Monday and early Tuesday, but not before destroying a
home and two other buildings in Jackson.
   And in southern California, an all-out air and ground assault by
1,000 firefighters went a long way toward extinguishing a
3,500-acre wildfire in Los Padres National Forest.
   Five water-dropping helicopters and three air tankers bombarding
flames with fire retardant chemicals helped ground crews in their
extensive effort to halt the three-day blaze, said David Schreiner
of the U.S. Forest Service.
   The Utah fires were reported in Rich County and on the
Uintah-Ouray Indian Reservation and crews were mopping up an
88-acre fire on Diamond Mountain in eastern Utah.
   Oregon firefighters stopped a 27-acre fire on Tuesday, but a new
fire broke out about 20 miles northeast of Prineville and, whipped
by strong afternoon winds, spread across at least 25 acres of pine
forest, said state Forestry Department spokesman Doug Decker.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0231 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2333EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p AM-CVN--BillyGraham 1stLd-Writethru a0641 07-19 0294</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-CVN--Billy Graham, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0641,300</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Jackson's Candidacy Shows Clergymen Can Seek Office, Graham Says</HEAD>
<NOTE>EDs: SUBS 3rd graf to show invocation delivered</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By JOHN FLESHER</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Jesse Jackson's presidential candidacy has
demonstrated that clergymen can seek public office and take strong
moral stands without mingling religion with politics, evangelist
Billy Graham said Tuesday.
   Jackson ``has the most charisma of anybody in politics today, in
my judgment,'' Graham said.
   The Baptist preacher delivered the invocation at Tuesday's
session of the Democratic National Convention and said he had been
asked to do likewise at the Republican gathering next month in New
Orleans.
   While clergymen and other Christian politicians should not
exploit their positions by depicting themselves as God's
candidates, neither should they downplay their religious ties,
Graham said.
   ``If Pat Robertson made a major mistake, it was when he
renounced his ordination,'' Graham said. ``I think even the people
who followed him, or people who didn't follow him, would have a
hard time understanding how a man could be called of God, ordained
of God _ and you're ordained for life _ and to renounce it.''
   Graham, who has been close to several presidents including
Lyndon Johnson and Richard Nixon but says he never took sides in a
presidential election, said he would stick to that policy this year.
   He said he hoped both parties' conventions would serve as
catalysts of a ``genuine spiritual revival in America'' that would
spread around the world, including the Soviet bloc.
   ``We are a very pluralistic society,'' he said. ``We shouldn't
have a Jewish platform or a Muslim platform or a Christian
platform, but we should have principles based upon our religious
faith and of course the dominant religion in America is
Christianity.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0232 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2333EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-PeaceConvoy     07-19 0539</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Peace Convoy,0556</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Activists Say Aid Convoy to Nicaragua Helped By U.S. Delay</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JAMES ANDERSON</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>MEXICO CITY (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Veterans' Peace Convoy of 31 American
activists taking humanitarian aid to Nicaragua was helped by the
U.S. government's attempt to keep it from crossing the border,
members said Tuesday.
   ``The publicity helped us greatly, and poor people came to us
throughout our trip to Mexico City, pushing coins into our hands
and saying, `This is the least we can do,''' said convoy
coordinator Raul Valdez, 40, of Austin, Texas.
   ``The support of Mexicans has been great.''
   The caravan crossed the Mexican border at Nuevo Laredo on July
14. It now has 20 trucks with 20 tons of supplies.
   The activists, who oppose U.S. policy aimed at overthrowing
Nicaragua's leftist Sandinista government, spoke with reporters
after rain washed out a planned demonstration in front of the U.S.
Embassy.
   They originally planned to reach Nicaragua in June to donate
food, medicine and other supplies, but were delayed by U.S.
Treasury Department refusal to let them cross the border at Laredo,
Texas.
   The U.S. government said that leaving the trucks in Nicaragua,
as they plan to do, would violate a 3-year-old trade embargo.
   Now the schedule calls for arriving in Nicaragua on July 27
after traveling through Guatemala and Honduras.
   Members of the group praised the hospitality they received in
Mexico.
   ``It's been fantastic,'' said Scott Breindel of New York. ``We
stopped to ask this guy for directions to a hotel in Mexico City,
and he just offered this compound where we could park our trucks
and a place to stay for the night.''
   The American visitors noted that the Foreign Ministry and
Interior Department arranged an official escort for their stay in
Mexico.
   If they return to the United States without the trucks, the
activists face up to a $50,000 fine and 10 years in jail each. The
U.S. government said the vehicles could be used by Nicaragua's
Sandinista government for military purposes and thus were subject
to the trade embargo.
   Before the group entered Mexico, U.S. Customs agents ``asked us
to sign a form that said we would promise to bring the trucks
back,'' said David Silk, 60, a World War II Merchant Marine veteran
from Stonington, Conn.
   ``It was another attempt to make it impossible for us to
continue our journey,'' said Silk, adding that no one signed the
document.
   Silk's truck is carrying more than 1,000 pounds of paper donated
by a local Methodist Church organization to print a Bible in the
language of Nicaragua's Sumo Indians. Other activists are bringing
food, medicines and medical equipment.
   The convoy also has sent 300,000 tons of goods by ship to
Nicaragua, whose government celebrated the ninth anniversary
Tuesday of its revolutionary victory over the rightist Somoza
dynasty that ruled Nicaragua for four decades.
   Convoy leaders said they hope to obtain a ruling in federal
court exempting their trucks from the Nicaraguan embargo. But they
said that even if it's not forthcoming they won't change their
plans.
   ``We're going to donate this assistance to humanitarian
organizations for the relief of human suffering,'' said Valdez, a
veteran of the Vietnam War. ``For that we'll risk any charges.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0233 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2255EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i AM-UN-Iran-Iraq 2ndLd-Writethru a0826 07-19 0705</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-UN-Iran-Iraq, 2nd Ld-Writethru, a0826,0725</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Iran Says U.N. Chief Could Declare Immediate Cease-Fire</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: New grafs 1-6 UPDATE with Iraqi sources doubting cease-fire
will come soon. Picks up 4th graf pvs, Mahallati said ... editing
15th graf pvs, Foreign Minister ... to conform</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By VICTORIA GRAHAM</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>UNITED NATIONS (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Iran condemned Tuesday's Iraqi raids
against Iranian targets, accused the Baghdad government of
sabotaging peace efforts and said the U.N. chief could declare the
start of a truce ``at this very moment.''
   But senior Iraqi sources at the United Nations, speaking on
condition of anonymity, said they doubted that Secretary-General
Javier Perez de Cuellar would succeed in his aim of achieving a
cease-fire in a week to 10 days.
   Iraq's foreign minister said in Baghdad on Tuesday that until
Iran takes concrete action toward achieving peace, Iraq must keep
on with the war.
   On Monday, Iran declared after a year's delay that it
unconditionally accepts Security Council Resolution 598 which
demands an immediate truce and troop withdrawal and sets out a
peace plan to end the 8-year-old Iran-Iraq war.
   Iran's U.N. ambassador, Mohammad Ja'afar Mahallati, spelled out
Iran's views after meeting Perez de Cuellar and after lodging a
formal protest with the Security Council over Iraq's air raids on a
nuclear facility and other targets.
   Iraq said the air strikes were prompted by Iranian attacks.
   Mahallati said he told the U.N. chief ``that in the view of the
authorities of Iran, the secretary-general ... has a totally free
hand to declare D-Day at this very moment, which means starting
implementation of Resolution 598.''
   D-Day is the day on which a cease-fire would begin. It would be
set by the secretary-general after consultations with both sides.
   Mahallati called the air strikes ``a deliberate attempt to
sabotage the work of the secretary-general and the Security Council
... to put an immediate end to this aggressive war initiated by
Iraq.''
   Perez de Cuellar held urgent consultations with Mahallati and
later with Iraqi Ambassador Ismat T. Kittani to discuss putting the
resolution into effect and the latest Iraqi attacks.
   The Security Council held closed-door consultations on
Resolution 598 and on Iran's demand to condemn the U.S. destruction
of an Iranian airliner July 3.
   The consultations ended Tuesday night without any decision or
statement and are scheduled to resume Wednesday.
   The secretary-general's spokesman, Francois Giuliani, told
reporters the U.N. chief believes ``the continuation of hostilities
is a clear sign that the cease-fire must come into place as soon as
possible.''
   Mahallati urged the council in a letter to condemn the Iraqi
attack which, he said, ``so defiantly mocks all efforts for
attainment of a peaceful end to the conflict.''
   Some diplomats said procedural matters, including translating
Mahallati's letter into other official U.N. languages, would have
to precede council discussion of this latest complaint. The
diplomats spoke on condition of anonymity.
   The protest was lodged hours before the council was to discuss
the shooting down of an Iranian airliner by the U.S. missile
cruiser Vincennes, which mistook it for an attacking warplane. All
290 people on board were killed.
   Iran has not obtained council condemnation of the U.S. action
and negotiations were under way to reach a compromise statement
which would be acceptable to all parties.
   Foreign Minister Aziz said in Baghdad that Iraq was ``on guard''
against Iranian intentions and believed its decision to accept the
cease-fire plan known as Resolution 598 ``might be a tactical
decision aimed at winning time or decoying, with the aim of
surprising us by initiating hostilities or preparing for more
aggression.''
   Aziz said that until Iran takes tangible steps toward peace and
demonstrates its sincerity, ``it is logical to act as if the war is
still going on.''
   On Tuesday Iraq hit Iranian targets and Iranian warplanes
retaliated by raiding a dam in Iraq.
   Iraq said a year ago that it accepts the resolution to end the
war that began in September 1980 if Iran does. Tehran at the time
withheld endorsement, saying Iraq had to be branded the aggressor
before there could be peace.
   Among other provisions, Resolution 598 calls for a prisoner
exchange, an impartial body to determine which side was the
aggressor and massive international reconstruction aid.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0234 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2255EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u p BC-CVN--JacksonText 2ndadd   07-19 0517</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-CVN--Jackson Text, 2nd add,540</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>ATLANTA: the valley.</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   It sounds impossible. Lions eat lambs; lambs sensibly flee from
lions. Yet even lions and lambs can find common ground.
   Why? Neither lions nor lambs want the forest to catch fire.
Neither lions nor lambs want acid rain to fall. Neither lions nor
lambs can survive nuclear war. If lions and lambs can find common
ground, surely we can.
   The only time we win is when we come together. In 1960, Kennedy
beat Nixon by only 112,000 votes. He brought us together, and
reached out.
   He had the courage to defy his advisors, and inquire about Dr.
King's jailing in Albany, Ga. We won by the margin of our hope,
inspired by courageous leadership.
   In 1964, Lyndon Johnson brought us together and we won.
   In 1976, Jimmy Carter unified us again and we won.
   And when we do not come together we never win.
   In 1968, division and despair in July led to our defeat in
November.
   In 1980, rancor in the spring and summer led to defeat in the
fall.
   When we divide, we cannot win. So our challenge here is to find
common ground.
   Tonight I salute Gov. Michael Dukakis. He has run a well-managed
and a dignified campaign.
   No matter how tired or how tried, he always resisted the
temptation to stoop to demagoguery. I have watched a good mind fast
at work, with steel nerves, guiding his campaign out of the crowded
field without appeal to the worst in us.
   I have watched his respective grow as his environment has
expanded. I've seen his toughness and tenacity close up and know
his commitment to public service.
   Mike Dukakis' parents were a doctor and a teacher. My parents
were a maid and a janitor.
   There is a great gap between Brookline, Mass., and Haney Street
in Greenville, S.C.
   He studied law. I studied theology.
   There are differences of religion, region and race, differences
in experiences and perspectives. But the genius of America is, that
out of the many we become one. Providence has enabled our paths to
intersect.
   His foreparents came to America on immigrant ships. My
foreparents came to America on slave ships.
   But whatever the original ships, we are both in the same boat
now. Our ships could pass in the night _ if we had a false sense of
independence _ or they could collide and crash, and we would lose
our passengers.
   But we can seek a higher reality and a greater good.
   Apart we can drift on the broken pieces of Reaganomics, satisfy
our baser instincts, and exploit the fears of our people.
   At our highest, we can call upon our noble instincts and
navigate this vessel to safety.
   The greater good is the common good. As Jesus said, not my will,
but thine be done. It was a way of saying there is a higher good
beyond personal comfort or position. The good of our nation is at
stake. Its commitment to working men and women, to the poor and the
vulnerable, to the many in the world.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>MORE</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0235 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2258EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u p BC-CVN--JacksonText 3rdadd   07-19 0347</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-CVN--Jackson Text, 3rd add,350</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>ATLANTA: the world.</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   With so many guided missiles and so much misguided leadership,
the stakes are very high.
   Our choice? Full participation in a democratic government or
more abandonment and neglect. So this night, we choose not a false
sense of independence, not our capacity to survive and endure.
Tonight we choose interdependency, and our capacity to act, to
unite for the greater good.
   Common ground.
   Governor Dukakis and I share a common commitment to new
priorities, to expansion and to inclusion. A commitment to
expanding participation in the Democratic Party at every level.
   A commitment to new priorities that insure that hope will be
kept alive.
   Common ground is a commitment to a legislative agenda for
empowerment _ to the Conyers bill for universal, same-day voter
registration, to D.C. statehood, to enforcement of economic
set-asides enacted under the leadership of Rep. Parren Mitchell and
Gus Savage, to the Dellums bill for comprehensive sanctions against
South Africa. Commitment to a new direction.
   Common ground is found in commitment to new priorities, to
expansion and inclusion. A commitment to expanding participation in
the Democratic Party at every level.
   A commitment to a shared national campaign strategy, and
involvement at every level.
   A commitment to new priorities that insure that hope will be
kept alive.
   Common ground. Where do we find common ground? At the point of
challenge. This campaign has shown that politics need not be the
marketing of politicians packaged by pollsters and pundits.
Politics can be a moral arena where people come together to find
common ground.
   We find common ground at the plant gate that closes on workers
without notice. Common ground at the farm auction where a good
farmer loses his land to bad loans or diminishing markets. Common
ground at the school yard where teachers cannot get adequate pay,
students can't find a scholarship, can't make a loan. Common ground
at the hospital admitting room, where the sick lie dying, unable to
go up to a bed that's empty waiting for the insured to get sick.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>MORE</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0236 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2336EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-Egypt-Amnesty     07-19 0338</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Egypt-Amnesty,0351</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Amnesty International Details Egyptian Torture</HEAD>
<DATELINE>LONDON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Amnesty International called on Egypt Wednesday to
protect political detainees who claim they were beaten with cables
and whips, given electric shocks and burned with cigarettes while
in detention.
   The international human rights organization said evidence it
compiled since 1981 indicated a continuing pattern of torture by
security and other officials working in Egyptian prisons and
detention centers.
   In June, 44 security, prison and police officials accused of
torturing political prisoners from 1981-83 were acquitted after a
trial in Cairo. Former detainees identified some of them as their
torturers, Amnesty International said in a statement.
   The group said in a 50-page report that its evidence of the
beatings, shocks and burns comes from interviews with victims and
from medical reports by the Egyptian Justice Ministry's forensic
medicine department. Doctors examining detainees who said they were
tortured found in many cases physical scarring consistent with the
complaints.
   Many reports of torture followed the arrest of thousands of
political suspects after the attempted assassinations in May and
August last year of two former interior ministers, Maj. Gen. Hassan
Abu Basha and Maj. Gen. Nabawi Ismail, and magazine editor Makram
Muhammed Ahmed, the group said.
   Most of those arrested were supporters of Islamic groups, and
said they were blindfolded and could not identify their torturers ,
it said.
   An Amnesty official attended part of the 18-month-long Cairo
trial.
   The organization said it is still assessing the trial outcome,
but that it did not want the acquittals to signify an end to
efforts by Egypt to end torture of political prisoners.
   The report was written after two missions to Egypt and extensive
talks with government officials there, the group said.
   The report recommended structural reforms within the country,
noting that Egypt's state of emergency has facilitated prolonged
detention.
   The state of emergency began after the 1981 assassination of
President Anwar Sadat by Islamic fundamentalists.
   Egypt was among the first six countries to become party to a
United Nations convention against torture.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0237 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2314EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u p AM-CVN--Platform 6thLd-Writethru a0878 07-19 0934</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-CVN--Platform, 6th Ld-Writethru, a0878,960</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Democrats OK Platform After Rejecting Two Jackson Planks</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Inserts new grafs 2-3 with Matsui quotes, color; picks up old
2nd graf, ``After rebuffing; restores deleted material at end.</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By CHRISTOPHER CONNELL</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Democrats closed ranks Tuesday night and adopted
a unity platform after soundly defeating Jesse Jackson's calls for
higher taxes on the wealthy and a pledge to reject the first use of
nuclear weapons.
   By clamorous voice vote, the delegates bellowed their approval
after Rep. Robert Matsui, D-Calif., said: ``This platform is for
our children. ... This is a document for the future of America.''
   In the entire arena, only a scattered few voices were heard when
House Speaker Jim Wright asked if there were any nays.
   After rebuffing the Jackson campaign on taxes and nuclear
strategy, delegates to the Democratic National Convention embraced
a raft of compromise amendments on other Jackson positions before
shouting their final approval of the entire platform.
   The platform debate followed a script agreed to by Michael
Dukakis, the party's presidential nominee-to-be, and Jackson.
   That script included a heated debate on a minority plank calling
for self-determination for the Palestinians. The Jackson side
withdrew the matter without putting it to a vote.
   Michigan Gov. James J. Blanchard, chairman of the Platform
Committee, said the platform will surprise skeptics who ``said it
couldn't be done. They said neither party could say `no' to the
special interests, the lobbyists, the money brokers.''
   The so-called Jackson ``Fair Tax'' plank was defeated 2,499 to
1,091.5. There were 90 abstentions.
   The minority plank on no first use of nuclear weapons went down,
2,474.1 to 1,220.6 with 67 abstentions.
   As promised, the Palestinian platform never came to a vote.
   ``The deadly silence that submerged the issue of Palestinian
rights has been shattered,'' said James Zogby, executive director
of the Arab-American Institute and a Jackson adviser. As he spoke,
a huge banner was carried across the crowded convention floor
reading: ``Self-Determination and Statehood for the Palestinian
People.''
   But Sen. Daniel Inouye of Hawaii called the Jackson Middle East
plank ``a vicious kick in the teeth of America's interests in that
part of the world.''
   Jackson's tax plank called for higher taxes for businesses and
the very wealthy.
   But Denver Mayor Frederico Pena, said, ``Let's not tie
(Dukakis') hands with a tax increase.''
   ``I don't like throwing softballs to an opponent to knock out of
the park and a tax hike pitch is a grand slam for George Bush,''
said Pena.
   The Dukakis and Jackson campaigns had settled most of their
differences beforehand.
   As part of the agreement between the two campaigns, the Jackson
forces said they would not press their demand for a five-year
freeze on Pentagon spending.
   The Dukakis campaign made concessions on nine other disputed
platform issues, from spending on education and Head Start to a
call for a mutual moratorium on missile flight testing.
   The Dukakis campaign also accepted intact a Jackson budget plank
that states: ``Investing in America and reducing the deficit
requires that the wealthy and corporations pay their fair share and
that we restrain Pentagon spending.''
   The platform was barely 4,500 words before amendments.
   Titled ``The Restoration of Competence and the Revival of
Hope,'' it makes no mention of either Ronald Reagan or George Bush,
but promises to reverse ``voodoo economics,'' help the homeless and
needy, improve education and maintain ``more stable defense
budgets.''
   ``Jackon has had a greater impact on this platform than any
candidate other than a nominee in memory,'' Eleanor Holmes Norton,
Jackson's chief platform negotiator, boasted.
   Michael Barnes, Dukakis' negotiator, said, ``We don't have
anything in the document that runs counter to Governor Dukakis'
positions.'' He denied a Jackson campaign claim that the compromise
language on Head Start, pre-natal care and nutrition programs for
pregnant women and babies amounted to ``a commitment of roughly $9
billion.''
   ``We don't have anything in the platform that could be described
as a specific budget item that would in any way commit the next
Congress or commit the next president, even theoretically,'' said
Barnes.
   On the Middle East, Zogby said, ``We wanted a debate, but we
didn't want a bloodletting.''
   Hyman Bookbinder, a Dukakis adviser who was formerly the
American Jewish Committee's Washington representative, said, ``The
pro-Israel community is very pleased with the way its coming out''
and that the majority plank is ``not anti-Palestinian.''
   The platform calls for ``new leadership to deliver the promise
of peace and security through negotiations that has been held out
to Israel and its neighbors by the Camp David Accords.'' It makes
no specific mention of the Palestinians.
   Jackson lost a 1984 platform dispute in San Francisco over the
no-first-use of nuclear weapons issue.
   Current U.S. and NATO policy would allow first use in the event
of a Soviet invasion of Europe.
   Sen. Sam Nunn of Georgia, chairman of the Senate Armed Services
Committee, told a forum at the Carter Center on Tuesday that
Jackson's plank, if passed, would ``shake the (NATO) alliance to
its core.''
   ``What that says to the Europeans is that as long as the Soviets
can contain it to a tank war, even chemical weapons, they can come
in and take Western Europe,'' said Nunn.
   The platform negotiators resumed talks Monday after a six-day
hiatus caused by tension between Jackson and Dukakis. Norton said
the Middle East plank was the last on the table.
   This shaped up as the tersest Democratic platform since Franklin
D. Roosevelt ran on platforms of only a few thousand words in 1932
and 1936. The Democrats' 1984 blueprint was eight times longer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0238 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2354EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-Amnesty-Israel     07-19 0242</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Amnesty-Israel,0248</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Amnesty Says Israeli Officials Tolerate Shootings</HEAD>
<DATELINE>ROME (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Amnesty International said Tuesday that high Israeli
officials have ``tolerated if not encouraged'' the use of firearms
against Palestinian demonstrators and expressed concern that ``so
few'' cases are investigated.
   The London-based human rights group said bullets fired by
Israeli soldiers killed at least 160 Palestinians, including women
and 55 people under age 18, in the occupied territories.
   According to U.N. figures Tuesday, 225 Palestinians and four
Israelis died in the Palestinian uprising in the occupied
territories since it began Dec. 8.
   Amnesty said in a statement released by its Rome office that it
asked Israel for a clarification on its policy and information on
investigations in the killing of Palestinians by the Israeli army.
   ``On the basis of available evidence, Israeli authorities at
high levels tolerated if not encouraged the ill considered and
excessive use of firearms,'' Amnesty said in the statement.
   It also said it was very concerned that ``few cases have been
the object of investigation.''
   Amnesty asked Israel to explain the directives in force on the
use of firearms and to provide the number of cases in which a
serious and thorough investigation was opened into the killing of a
Palestinian.
   The group also asked Israel to explain how it reached its
conclusions in investigations already completed, and to say if or
when members of the Israel army were tried or disciplined for
killing a Palestinian demonstrator.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0239 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2317EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u p BC-CVN--JacksonText 4thadd   07-19 0522</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-CVN--Jackson Text, 4th add,510</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>ATLANTA: get sick.</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   Common ground. What is leadership if not to present help in a
time of crisis?
   So I have met you at the point of challenge.
   In Jay, Maine, where paperworkers were striking for fair wages.
In Greenfield, Iowa, where family farmers struggle for a fair
price. In Cleveland, Ohio, where working women seek comparable
worth. In McFarland, Calif., where the children of Hispanic
farmworkers may be dying from a poisoned land _ dying in clusters
with cancer. In the AIDS hospice in Houston, Texas, where the sick
support one another, too often rejected even by their loved ones.
   Common ground. America is not a blanket, woven from one thread,
one color, one cloth. When I was a child in South Carolina, and
momma couldn't afford a blanket, she didn't complain and we didn't
freeze. Instead she took pieces of old cloth _ patches _ wool,
silk, gaberdeen, crockersack _ only patches, barely good enough to
shine your shoes with. But they didn't stay that way long. With
sturdy hands and strong cord, she sewed them together into a quilt,
a thing of power, beauty and culture. Now we must build a quilt
together.
   Farmers, when you seek fair prices, you are right _ but your
patch isn't big enough. Workers, when you seek fair wages, you are
right _ but your patch isn't big enough. Women, when you seek
comparable worth and pay equity, you are right _ but your patch
isn't big enough. Mothers, when you seek Head Start, prenatal care
and day care, you are right _ but your patch isn't big enough.
Students, when you seek scholarships, your are right _ but your
patch isn't big enough.
   Blacks and Hispanics, when we fight for civil rights, we are
right _ but our patch isn't big enough. Gays and lesbians, when you
fight against discrimination and for a cure for AIDS, you are right
_ but your patch isn't big enough. Conservatives and progressives,
when you fight for what you believe, you are right _ but your patch
isn't big enough.
   But don't despair. When we bring the patches together, make a
quilt, and turn to each other and not on each other, we the people
always win. George Bush will be off to private life, leave
Washington on a one-way ticket _ a super saver.
   We stand at the end of a long, dark night of reaction. We stand
tonight united in the commitment to a new direction. For almost
eight years, we have been led by those who view social good coming
from private interest, who viewed public life as a means to
increase private wealth. They have been prepared to sacrifice the
common good of the many to satisfy the private interests of a few.
   We believe in a government that is the tool of democracy in
service to the public health, education, affordable housing, not an
instrument of aristocracy in search of private wealth. We believe
in government by, of and for the people. We must now emerge into a
new day and a new direction.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>MORE</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0240 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2323EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u a AM-HeatRdp 1stLd-Writethru a0755 07-19 0692</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Heat Rdp, 1st Ld - Writethru, a0755,0704</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Steamy Weather Strains Utilities; Death Toll Hits 43</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Inserts 4 grafs after 10th graf `The two' to UPDATE with West
Coast power shortage, record highs in California, Oregon,
Washington. Picks up 11th graf pvs `The suffering...'</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By The Associated Press</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   Humidity steamed through the South on Tuesday, forcing power
companies to plead for customers to conserve, while residents of
the Midwest and Northeast got some relief from changing weather
patterns and a bank's fan giveaway.
   ``This miserable hot weather has got air conditioners running
full blast,'' said Joseph Maher, a Duke Power Co. spokesman in
North Carolina.
   A cold front moving slowly east from the Great Lakes region and
widespread rain from the Plains to the Gulf Coast moderated
temperatures for much of the nation, the National Weather Service
said. But a strong upper-level high pressure system anchored over
northern California drove inland temperatures well above 100
degrees.
   Detroit officials blamed the weekend deaths of two men on the
heat, bringing the national toll of heat-related deaths to at least
43 since June 1.
   Officials in St. Louis County called off a heat warning after
rain fell and temperatures moderated Tuesday, but not before an
elderly woman and a 63-year-old man were found dead in sweltering
homes.
   Overcast skies and scattered showers brought cooler temperatures
to the Boston area, ending three days of intense heat and stifling
humidity. The high temperature at Logan Airport Tuesday was 77,
compared with low 90s over the weekend.
   Temperatures in the 90s for the past week across much of North
Carolina prompted Duke Power Co. and Carolina Power and Light Co.
to implement conservation programs.
   Duke asked customers to turn up thermostats 4 to 5 degrees, stop
running appliances and otherwise curtail power use until 8 p.m.
Tuesday because the demand for electricity was expected to exceed
the supply.
   ``The company is also reducing voltage throughout its
20,000-square-mile service area today,'' said power supply manager
Walter Campbell in a statement, adding that the voltage reduction
could result in dimming of television sets and slower operation of
appliances.
   The two utilities had cut off service to some industrial
customers for an hour to an hour and a half on Monday amid record
power demand.
   Power demands also reached an all-time high in California's
Central Valley, and Pacific Gas & Electric Co. officials asked
customers to stop running major appliances from noon to 6 p.m. The
temperature in Redding, Calif., reached 116, breaking a 42-year-old
record by 3 degrees, and in Red Bluff, Calif., it was 115, beating
the 1931 record by 1 degree.
   In Eureka on the cool northern California coast, the 71-degree
reading was enough to beat the 5-year-old record by 3 degrees.
   In Washington, Seattle had a record high for the date of 95
degrees, and Quillayute on the Olympic Peninsula hit 97, a record
for the month of July.
   It reached 109 degrees in Medford, Ore., 2 degrees hotter than
the record for the date set in 1946. Other Oregon records included
Astoria, 93, 4 degrees hotter than the 1956 record; and Eugene,
102, 1 degree hotter than the 1946 record.
   The suffering produced by hot weather was brought home to St.
Paul, Minn., bank executive Mark Sheffert when his air conditioner
broke. Now, First Bank System is handing out _ and delivering, if
necessary _ 10,000 fans to the elderly and disabled and people with
young children.
   ``I just kept thinking about the people who had no relief from
the heat,'' said Sheffert, First Bank System's executive vice
president. ``I figured there must be something we can do.''
   He said the bank bought the fans for about $200,000 from Sears,
Roebuck and Co. and had them shipped from Pennsylvania on eight
trucks.
   ``I think this is a wonderful gesture on the part of the bank,''
said Sarah LeMire, 81, who got a fan for her eighth-floor
apartment. ``We've had some awfully hot days.''
   Since June 1, deaths blamed on the heat numbered at least 5 in
Kentucky, 4 in Kansas, 2 in Michigan, 24 in Missouri, 3 in Illinois
and 5 in Georgia.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0241 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2323EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u p BC-CVN--JacksonText 5thadd   07-19 0494</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-CVN--Jackson Text, 5th add,500</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>ATLANTA: new direction.</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   Reaganomics. Reaganomics was based on the belief that the rich
had too much money and the poor had too little. So reverse Robin
Hood _ take from the poor and give to the rich.
   Today _ seven years later _ the richest 1 percent of our society
pay 20 percent less in taxes. The poorest 10 percent pay 20 percent
more. Reaganomics.
   Reagan gave the rich and the powerful a multibillion-dollar
party. Now when the party's over, he expects the people to pay for
the damage.
   But we say, let us not raise taxes on poor and middle-class
people. The rich and the corporations must pay their fair share of
taxes. Let those who had the party pay for the party. Reaganomics!
   We are spending over $150 billion a year defending Europe and
Japan 43 years after the war is over. We have more troops today in
Europe than we had seven years ago. Yet the threat of war is ever
more remote.
   Germany and Japan are now creditor nations; we are a debtor
nation. Let them share more of the burden of their own defense. We
can use some of the money to invest in prenatal care, Head Start
and day care, to invest in education, to invest in our children
that they might grow, and strengthen this country from the inside
out.
   We must reverse Reaganomics. For that we need bold leadership,
sound ideas and a new direction. Authentic leaders do not follow
public opinion polls, they mold opinion. They set a moral tone,
define priorities, and forge a mandate for change.
   Leaders address the moral challenge of their day. The moral
challenge of our day is economic violence. Plants that close on
workers without notice. Economic violence. Consumers gouged by
corporate greed. Economic violence. A minimum wage that keeps
workers in poverty. Economic violence.
   We must make sense. The No. 1 threat to our national security
tonight is drugs. We must stop the flow of drugs into this country.
Drugs are killing our children, threatening our neighborhoods,
undermining our society. Educate the children, yes, but do not stop
there.
   We are spending $150 billion a year on drugs. Children are not
buying $150 billion worth of drugs. Athletes are not laundering
that money. Bankers are.
   Let's get serious about a war on drugs. Bust the bankers who
launder and the gun dealers who exploit. This party's platform
commits us to a serious war on drugs. Convene the nations where
drugs are grown, offer them economic assistance for alternative
crops. Strengthen our Coast Guard and border patrol to stop the
drugs coming this way. Education and rehabilitation for those who
are sick.
   If the Democratic Party is in the White House, we will
significantly reduce the flow of drugs. But you must cut the demand
for the drugs. It must be a partnership, a bond between the
government and the people.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>MORE</NOTE>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0242 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0640EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-DigestBriefs     07-19 0796</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Digest Briefs,0825</2ND_LINE>
<BYLINE>By The Associated Press</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Texas oilman G.P. Cokinos watched in joyful
reverie as a roomful of his fellow Dukakis fund-raisers danced to a
blaring band. ``I am having one of the finest times of my life,''
he yelled over the din.
   The Michael Dukakis campaign wouldn't have it any other way. The
financial juggernaut of the primary season is greasing the wheels
this week for a $50 million effort this fall by courting big money
with a fervor rare in Democrats.
   ``I have 14 events today. Five dinners! And I'm trying to lose
weight,'' said Robert Farmer, mastermind of the Dukakis money
machine. ``It's like a six-day party where everybody you ever met
is there, and you're the host.''
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Attorney General Edwin Meese III says he acted
``legally, ethically and properly,'' despite an independent
counsel's conclusions that he probably broke two tax laws and twice
violated a conflict-of-interest law.
   Meese mounted a strong counterattack to the report by
independent counsel James McKay, who said Monday that ``the
toughest calls we made were not to proceed'' with criminal charges
against the attorney general.
   ``It was not a close call to find that there were probable
violations,'' McKay said on the ``MacNeil-Lehrer NewsHour''
television program.
   McKay said Meese and his wife, Ursula, probably violated two
sections of the Internal Revenue Code by failing to report and
promptly pay tax on a net capital gain of $20,706 on the sale of
$54,581 in securities in 1985.
   McKay noted that Meese filed an amended return on Feb. 6 of this
year, ``shortly after the scheduling of the grand jury appearances
for the Meeses' accountants'' in connection with McKay's criminal
investigation of the matter.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. (AP) _ A man accused of killing four people
and wounding five others with a rifle as he roamed his
neighborhood, laughing between shots, was upset because his
pregnant wife left him, friends and neighbors said.
   Michael Charles Hayes, 24, was charged Monday with two counts of
first-degree murder, and other charges were expected, Forsyth
County Sheriff Preston Oldham said.
   Hayes was listed in critical condition today with six gunshot
wounds suffered Sunday night when deputies returned fire, ending a
12-minute shooting spree that neighbors said was punctuated by
Hayes' laughter.
   ``Every time you'd hear a shot go off, he'd laugh,'' said R.
Timothy Beck, who lives nearby.
   Hayes' family tried to have him committed to a mental hospital
on Saturday after he broke one of his hands beating a wall, said
his stepfather, Garis Edwards. But the family was told they would
have to file an involuntary commitment petition with a magistrate
in another county, and a sheriff's lieutenant said the commitment
could wait until Monday, he said.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>BEIJING (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Yangtze River dolphin is rarer than the panda
but also less famous and less cuddly and that means it may be
doomed, says visiting American dolphin trainer Ric O'Barry.
   The huggable, black-and-white visage of a panda looking out from
World Wildlife Fund advertisements around the world has helped
raise thousands of dollars to save the fewer than 1,000 pandas left
in Chinese forests.
   But there are no international fund-raising efforts to save the
200 to 300 squinty-eyed, bat-nosed river dolphins. They are dying
out as their only native home, China's Yangtze River, becomes
increasingly congested and polluted.
   That's where O'Barry comes in.
   The trainer of the world's most famous dolphin, Flipper, who
starred in a U.S. television series in the 1960s, O'Barry met last
week with Chinese dolphin experts in the central city of Wuhan. Now
he is heading back to the United States to try to launch an
emergency campaign to save the dying dolphins.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>WEST WINDSOR, N.J. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The 50th anniversary celebration of
the ``War of the Worlds'' broadcast, Orson Welles' radio play about
an alien invasion that terrified America, was launched with
``Martian punch'' and a song.
   Welles and his Mercury Theater created a sensation the night of
Oct. 30, 1938, with their broadcast based on H.G. Wells' tale of a
Martian invasion of Earth. Despite disclaimers it was fictitious,
the realistic-sounding broadcast on CBS created a nationwide panic.
   The ``invasion'' began at Grovers Mill, chosen at random by
scriptwriter Howard Koch, and residents of the hamlet in West
Windsor Township near Princeton have been reminded annually of its
dubious place in radio history.
   In the coming months, the group organizing the celebration hopes
to remind the world of the broadcast, heard by an estimated 6
million people, and the role it played in redefining radio's power.
   The Fiftieth Anniversary Commemorative Committee for War of the
Worlds Inc. began the festivities Monday with the debut of ``Over
The Airwaves, The Ballad of Grovers Mill.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0243 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2002EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-DigestBriefs     07-19 1497</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Digest Briefs,1557</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>Eds: This package does not contain the following items from the
News Digest: ATLANTA _ CVN--Convention Rdp; ATLANTA _ CVN--Jackson;
ATLANTA _ CVN--Platform; ATLANTA _ CVN--Protest; UNDATED _
Wildfires Rdp.</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By The Associated Press</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The most precious commodity in a political
campaign _ more than money or endorsements or straw hats with red,
white and blue bunting _ is what insiders refer to as ``the body.''
This week, the body belongs to one Michael Stanley Dukakis.
   To see what the Democrats want to achieve during convention
week, it's instructive to consider how the governor is spending his
time here. His schedule reveals a sharp departure from the strategy
of nominees past.
   The Dukakis campaign has junked the nominee's ritual
convention-week meetings with delegates. In the past, a fellow like
Walter Mondale or George McGovern would begin his convention day
with breakfast remarks to, say, the Oklahoma delegation, and then
go on to a brief appearance before, for example, the Upper Midwest
Hispanic Agricultural Caucus.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   James Butler is due in court Wednesday morning
back home in Stuart, Fla., but he thought it important that he be
here to peddle his unique product at the Democratic National
Convention.
   The product, to put it delicately, is a filter to keep ``from
being choked to death by verbal and visual pollution.'' Its name
has two initials that could stand for Beneath Sanity, but they
don't.
   Butler could be found on Day Two of the convention hawking his
product in a block-long parking lot near the convention hall set
aside for speech-making. A sort of Atlanta Hyde Park.
   His filter wasn't needed right at that moment. The speaker at
the mike was addressing an audience of 17, outnumbered better than
two-to-one by 40 portable johns and more than evenly matched by
more than two dozen bored, hot, riot police.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Republican strategists are braced for a surge
in Michael Dukakis' ratings after the Democratic National
Convention despite new polls suggesting his early lead in the
presidential race has evaporated.
   Vice President George Bush's campaign manager, Lee Atwater, said
Tuesday that Dukakis should be the beneficiary of a normal boost in
popularity that comes from convention exposure. GOP consultant
Roger Stone agreed, saying he expected Dukakis to get ``an
artificial boost, maybe as much as 7 to 10 points.''
   Both predicted a long, tight race. Atwater said ``I think it's
going to be a very late election to a certain extent, because I
don't think voters are focusing on the election and I don't think
they care too much about it.''
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>JERUSALEM (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The world may celebrate the end of the
Iran-Iraq war, but Israel will not.
   Prominent Israelis say the 8-year-old war nearly eliminated the
possibility of united Arab military action against Israel, but
peace in the Persian Gulf could make Iraq's huge military machine
available for such a campaign.
   ``The moment this army becomes free there's a fear of war,''
Maj. Gen. Yehoshua Saguy, a former head of military intelligence,
said Tuesday on Israel radio.
   Brig. Gen. Aharon Levran said in an interview: ``As long as the
gulf war was raging, Israel could rest assured that the chances for
a war here were almost nil. This security bonaza which Israel
enjoyed up to now is probably coming to an end.'' Levran, retired
from the military, is an analyst at the Jaffee Center for Strategic
Studies in Tel Aviv.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Despite dry weather, housing construction only
partially rebounded in June from the sharp slump in May, and
economists say rising mortgage rates likely will curtail home
building for the rest of the year.
   The Commerce Department said Tuesday that builders started
construction of new houses and apartments at a seasonally adjusted
annual rate of 1.45 million units in June, up 5.1 percent from the
previous month.
   But the improvement only partly offset a precipitous 12.6
percent decline in May.
   The hot, dry weather of June, bad for farming but ideal for home
building, also contributed to the uptick.
   And, mortgage interest rates, which had climbed by
three-quarters of a percentage point from post-stock crash lows in
early March, eased slightly in June, falling by nearly a quarter of
a percentage point.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Justice Department has launched a new
ethics investigation into the conduct of outgoing Attorney General
Edwin Meese III in the wake of an independent counsel's finding
that he ``probably'' violated criminal laws on four occasions.
   Meese's assistance to his longtime friend E. Robert Wallach is
expected to come under especially close scrutiny in the latest
probe, said department sources, speaking on condition of anonymity.
   The self-styled citizens group Common Cause asked the Justice
Department's Office of Professional Responsibility on July 6 to
look into Meese's ethics. OPR Counsel Michael Shaheen replied, in a
letter released Tuesday by Common Cause, that ``We have initiated
an inquiry into your complaint.''
</TEXT>
<BYLINE>By The Associated Press</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   In Indiana, years of genetic work on new strains of corn and
soybeans withered in the field. In Ohio, crop failure halted
research on stalk rot and other corn diseases. In Georgia, a
parched pasture killed a grazing test and put 67 cows on the
auction block.
   Across drought-scorched sections of the United States,
universities have abandoned or cut back on millions of dollars
worth of experiments aimed at breeding tastier, healthier crops and
beefier cattle.
   ``It not only wipes out the whole year, long-range research may
be ruined, which means we'll have to start over. It may have
effects that carry over for years,'' said William Baumgardt,
director of agricultural research for Purdue University in arid
West Lafayette, Ind.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   An estimated 240,000 people left the land last
year, dropping the nation's farm population to the lowest level
since before the Civil War, the government reported Tuesday.
   Officials said an average of 4,986,000 people _ one out of every
49 Americans _ lived on farms in 1987, representing 2 percent of
the U.S. population of 243.4 million.
   That compared with 5,226,000 farm residents in 1986, which was
2.2 percent of the national population of 241.1 million.
   The figures were derived from an annual survey by the Census
Bureau, an agency of the Commerce Department, and released jointly
with the Agriculture Department. A preliminary report was issued on
Feb. 8.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   South Africa was quiet on
Nelson Mandela's 70th birthday, showing once again the government's
ability to defuse potentially explosive events and its refusal to
bow to world opinion.
   Dozens of governments _ including the United States _ appealed
for Mandela's release. Thousands of people held rallies in world
capitals to mark the birthday Monday of the African National
Congress leader who has been imprisoned since 1962.
   In South Africa even the pro-government, Afrikaans-language
newspaper Beeld said it now would be better to free Mandela rather
than further enhance his stature as a martyr.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>LONDON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   ``It's time to bury the hatchet,'' said the man
who organized bonfires across England to copy the warning of the
Armada given 400 years ago, and Spain's ambassador drove to
Cornwall to light the first one Tuesday night.
   The Spanish Armada's 125 ships carried 19,000 soldiers, 8,000
sailors, 2,000 galley slaves and 180 monks and friars, sent by
Philip II, the Roman Catholic king of Spain, to overthrow England's
Protestant Queen Elizabeth I.
   Legend has it that Elizabeth's favorite captain, Sir Francis
Drake, was involved in a lawn-bowling game in Plymouth as the great
fleet approached and was so unflustered that he insisted on
finishing it before going to his ship.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>MADISON, Wis. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Wisconsin's squeaky-clean image has been
shaken by accusations that a top Madison lobbyist bought meals for
legislators and paid for travel in a possible violation of state
law.
   Some legislators and others say the the infractions are minor _
one of the meals cost $5 or $6 _ especially when compared to states
with a greater history of government scandal.
   But the state director of Common Cause, the self-styled citizen
lobbying group, said Wisconsin should judge itself by its own
standards, not by those of states where such infractions would
barely leave a ripple.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>JULIAN, Pa. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Soaring at 2,000 feet in a glider gave
personnel manager Jack Thomas a whole new perspective on risks in
the business world.
   ``When you take a risk doing that, you go back and think about
taking a risk making a business decision. It's no big deal,'' said
Thomas, who works for the Digital Equipment Corp. in Maynard, Mass.
   Thomas took the half-hour glider ride as part of a four-week
program for upper-level managers that began July 11. Albert A.
Vicere, who runs the 22-year-old Executive Management Program at
Penn State University, said the extracurricular activities are
intended to push the current class of 36 managers from 10 countries
completely out of their element.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0244 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0841EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a e PM-APonTV-Comedies Adv20   07-19 0856</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-AP on TV-Comedies, Adv 20,0876</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv20</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Wed PMs, July 20, and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>Morris Day in NBC Comedy; HBO Live from Montreal Comedy Fest</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By KATHRYN BAKER</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Television Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Flamboyant rock singer Morris Day's idea of
acting is to raise his eyebrows and purse his lips.
   That makes him just perfect to play flamboyant record producer
Curtis Rousseau in the NBC sitcom pilot, ``Heart and Soul.'' NBC is
airing the show Thursday in place of ``A Different World.''
   Rousseau's foil is Richard Bradley, the reasonable,
right-thinking half of the partnership. He is played by Clark
Johnson and lifts the sitcom above insulting stereotype level.
   Richard wants to quit the business to teach high school music.
Curtis is appalled _ ``We've been together since Michael Jackson
had cartilage'' _ and thinks a new girl singer he has discovered
will change Richard's mind. But her rather large, conservative
father, played by James Avery, thinks record producers are a sleazy
lot and prefers that his daughter go to medical school.
   To convince the father otherwise, Curtis makes a stab at
respectability by donning a three-piece suit. Checking himself in
the mirror, he notes, ``If there was a charity for people who had
to dress like this every day, my check would be in the mail.''
   Day doesn't deliver lines very convincingly, but his personal
style is often delightful, as when he pirouettes to pick up the
phone, or whoops his pleasure at the outrageous compliments dished
by his mailroom sycophant (Barry Sobel): ``They said Elvis was de
king? He not de king. You de king!''
   But the second half of the comedy turns to leaden melodrama when
the aspiring singer (Tisha Campbell) tries to persuade Richard to
manage her career. When she finally sings, she has a great voice,
but the scene is embarrassingly maudlin.
   One of the executive producers of ``Heart and Soul'' is Quincy
Jones, Michael Jackson's producer. With some inside-the-business
insights and a few more laughs, this show might have given Jones a
different kind of hit.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   WHY IS THIS MAN HERE? _ John Candy seems pleased but vaguely
perplexed about why he was chosen to be host of HBO's live special
from the Just for Laughs International Comedy Festival in Montreal
on Saturday.
   The festival features mostly standup comics. Candy, a former
cast member of ``SCTV,'' is a comic actor, but he's never done
standup.
   ``They had called way out of left field,'' he said. ``I'm not
really associated with standups at all, so I don't understand. But
I was flattered. I do have a great respect for these people.''
   The festival began six years ago as a French-speaking event, but
has expanded into a 10-day, multilingual festival. This year's
headliners include Richard Belzer, Steven Wright and Graham Chapman.
   Candy is Canadian, but he hadn't been to the festival before,
and is therefore a somewhat diffident salesman for the event, even
though HBO arranged an interview to promote the special.
   ``They're spending a lot of time, money and effort there,''
Candy said, searching for something promotional to say. ``They seem
very organized. There's a lot of great acts, judging by what I'm
seeing. It's very impressive, and it's got a big guest list there.''
   Candy was a little more forthcoming about the movie he was
shooting in Toronto. He described it as a detective comedy a la
Peter Sellers' Inspector Clouseau.
   Except for ``Splash,'' Candy's movies haven't been roaring
successes with the critics. He's currently starring in ``The Great
Outdoors'' with Dan Aykroyd.
   He insists, though, that he's very happy with the script for the
new movie, which is being directed by Paul Flaherty, brother of
Candy's SCTV colleague Joe Flaherty.
   ``I rarely talk about movies I'm in, but I feel very good about
this one,'' said Candy, who is its executive producer. ``It's got a
nice feel to it. Very reminiscent of some of our work on `SCTV,'
you know, creative periods where you can just feel it, sense it,
good work.''
   Candy said he's tired of dealing with movie people who ``know
nothing about comedy'' and just try to get the movie out as quickly
as possible.
   ``I'm tired of it, and my associations in the future will be
with people I feel I can depend on and trust,'' he said. ``I'm
looking at my pictures a little more carefully now. If the odd
cameo comes up, you've got to look out for money, we all have to
make a living. But the ones I'm involved with, if you know what I
mean, I want to make sure they're done right.''
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   Elsewhere in television:
   JULIANNE REDUX _ All the brouhaha over the bust-up of Bruce
Springsteen's marriage has died down, but confused or merely
curious viewers can get a look at the rock wife in question when
NBC reruns ``His Mistress,'' a made-for-TV movie starring Julianne
Phillips and Robert Urich on Aug. 1. Urich plays a corporate
big-wig and Phillips plays the title role. The movie originally ran
in 1984, the year before Phillips married Springsteen.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Wed PMs, July 20</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0245 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1114EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a a PM-ReligionintheNews Adv22   07-19 0769</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Religion in the News, Adv 22,0793</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$adv22</NOTE>
<NOTE>For release Fri PMs July 22, or thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>Christian Books Are Big Business</HEAD>
<NOTE>With Laserphoto</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By GEORGE W. CORNELL</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Religion Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Because either they're more appealing or more
keenly needed, Christian books these days are commanding a swelling
audience that's looking for help in living.
   That's the assessment of William R. Anderson, president of the
Christian Booksellers Association, whose international convention
in Dallas this week staged one of the nation's biggest trade shows.
   It involves a $2 billion annually retail industry, doubled since
1980.
   ``The volume is growing steadily,'' Anderson said in a telephone
interview. ``The market has expanded beyond the pew, partly because
the product appeal is broader and also because of sociological
trends.
   ``There's a renewed interest in religion in general, an acute
awareness of the spiritual side of life, a return to
Judeo-Christian values.''
   About 11,000 people were registered for the trade show, buyers
from about 5,200 Christian bookstores across the nation placing
orders with about 350 exhibitors spread over 275,000 square feet of
the Dallas Convention Center.
   As part of it, about 20 educational workshops were offered on
such things as finance, marketing and management.
   In size, the affair is in the top 1{ percent of the 8,000 trade
shows that take place annually in this country, as rated by the
Trade Show Bureau.
   Statistical extrapolations indicate the Christian bookstores
sell about 80 million volumes annually, with best sellers often
selling two or three times more than books on secular best-seller
lists.
   Anderson said readers especially want ``self-help kind of
books'' on difficult issues of life and ``understanding of them on
a spiritual plane,'' both for themselves and their children.
   ``Publishers are dealing with hard issues that were skirted a
decade ago, books on AIDS, child abuse, putting a broken marriage
together, death and dying, life-related issues that everybody faces.
   ``We're selling information about life, how to change, how to
determine values, what the Scriptures have to say about it.''
   He said there also is big demand for books for young parents
wanting ``quality products'' focused on nurturing children in
values of honesty, integrity, respect for parents and other
authorities.
   ``There's more recognition of the role of parents, and a
conservative value swing in terms of Judeo-Cbhristian values.''
   Anderson, 40, whose organization is based in Colorado Springs,
Colo., and whose glossy trade monthly, Bookstore Journal, has 8,000
subscribers, said books make up about 45 percent of Christian
bookstore sales.
   An increasing proportion, now about l8 percent, is music tapes,
with Christian singers such as Amy Grant, Sandy Patti and others
gaining popularity and producing hits that cross over into the
secular field.
   ``Christian music is one of the fasting growing areas of our
stores,'' Anderson said. He noted that the stores also handle a
variety of other merchandise, gifts, greeting cards, video and
church supplies.
   ``They've really become department stores of Christian
products,'' he said. ``That's part of the story of what's
happening. The variety of products allows selection according to
the media people want to use.
   ``It also provides a variety in levels of complexity, from kids
to adults, according to education and theological depth, from
simple to the more educated and knowledgeable.''
   Studies by John Dessauer, director of the Center for Book
Research at the University of Scranton in Pennsylvania, project
Christian book sales will reach $3.6 billion annually by 1990.
   Anderson said store managers have become more professionalized
and sophisticated in their approach, and also younger, their
average age dropping from 54 to 37 in the last 20 years.
   ``It's viewed more as a viable career from the front end rather
than as a post-retirement kind of career,'' he said.
   He said the present demand for self-help books reflects the
pragmatic American streak to find a ``quick fix'' in a ``society
more success oriented.''
   ``But much of life does not have a quick fix,'' he said. ``We're
complex beings , mentally, spiritually and emotionally. One of the
deceptions of modern day thought is that things can be easily fixed
by an instant dance in front of the microwave.
   ``But honest books point out that most things don't have quick
fixes, that they require changed habits, values, new ways of life,
patterns and norms, things that come only with difficulty and
time.''
   Some books offer the superficial, how-to formulas, he said, and
``consumers need to be aware of it. Not many times can you just add
water and stir to get the job done. We need to take a hard look at
that.''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv Fri PMs July 22</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0246 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1436EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a a PM-BusinessMirror Adv20   07-19 0638</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Business Mirror, Adv 20 ,0653</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$adv 20</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release PMs Wednesday July 20</NOTE>
<HEAD>Why You Feel the Financial Pinch</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Also on financial wires.</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By JOHN CUNNIFF</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Business Analyst</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Since 1980, the pre-tax median income of the
two-earner family has leaped to $46,848 from $29,627, a sizable
increase until you try to spend it.
   Don't try. A lot of people who attempt doing so end up in
bankruptcy court.
   While the figures cited are real as mathematics can make them,
they are, for the practical purposes of every day life, as reliable
as a swindler's spiel. There is a wide gap between perception and
reality.
   In a sense, much income today is pre-spent on taxes at all
levels and on Social Security levies. Moreover, what remains is
reduced sharply by inflation, which erodes spending power as
relentlessly as termites turn wood to dust.
   In real terms _ after subtracting for inflation and higher
direct federal taxes, including Social Security _ the median income
for a two-earner household with two children has risen a bit more
than $3,700 so far in the 1980s.
   That figure, from the Tax Foundation, a non-profit organization
that claims to have no ax to grind except that which is used to
hack away at inefficiency, is but a fraction of the $14,000-a-year
increase depicted by the raw figure.
   The disparity between appearance and reality might help explain
the tendency toward low savings and extensive use of credit that
has identified the 1980s as distinct from other recent decades.
   In explanation, it might be argued that a lot of folks tend to
think of themselves as financially better off than they are, and
then attempt to live up to that image. If it takes credit to do so,
then so be it.
   Some, in fact, may have justification for living beyond their
job incomes, having made wise investments in securities or real
estate that provide them with dividends, borrowing power or
saleable assets.
   But, based strictly on income earned from jobs, the financial
story of American families is not as pretty as it might at first
seem.
   The Tax Foundation study says that in 1980 the median two-earner
family with two children, and filing a joint return, paid $4,050 in
federal income taxes and $1,816 in Social Security taxes, for a
total bite of $5,866.
   In 1988, the estimate for the $46,848 median income is $5,623
for federal income taxes and $3,518 for Social Security taxes. The
total of $9,141 supposedly will leave $37,707 to be used by the
family.
   The results, however, are illusory, since they are stated in
current dollars.
   That is, the 1980 figures were in 1980 dollars, and the 1988
numbers were measured by the 1988 dollar. The calibrations on the
measuring stick were different _ like saying a foot was 12 inches
one time and six inches another.
   What changes the calibrations on the measuring stick, of course,
is inflation. And while inflation during the 1980s has not been
nearly as bad as in the double-digit 1970s, it does add up _ and it
compounds, too.
   The only way to make a sensible comparison is to use the same
measuring stick, and the Tax Foundation chose the 1988 dollar. By
that measurement, the 1988 after-tax income remains $37,707; but
the 1980 income becomes $33,393.
   It could be stated differently. The value of the dollar in any
year could have been used to make the comparisons. The important
thing is that the same measuring device, the same dollar, be used
for both periods.
   Even then the figures obtained might not reflect reality. The
foundation study, for example, included only direct federal taxes.
It omitted state and local income taxes, to say nothing of real
estate and sales taxes.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv PMs Wed July 20</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0247 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1422EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a e AM-APArts:VideoUpdate Adv21   07-19 0897</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-AP Arts: Video Update, Adv 21,0918</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv21</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Thu AMs, July 21, and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>Not All Stars Want Their MTV</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By RICHARD DE ATLEY</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>LOS ANGELES (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Music videos have become one of the sharpest
promotional tools for records since radio play, but their
usefulness may be waning.
   Not all artists need, or want, their MTV, and record company
executives concede that after years of trying, they simply cannot
make money selling video clips to consumers.
   While costs have increased, outlets for showing music videos
have diminished from several syndicated shows to just two
continuous programming cable channels and six major cable shows
lasting from 14 hours a day to one hour a week.
   Still, such stars as Tiffany, Terence Trent D'Arby and George
Michael owe their success to the image they present through slick
video productions that cost anywhere from $10,000 to $225,000 to
produce.
   ``When videos first started, it was an emotional point for
everyone to ask for one, and it made sense,'' said Jeff Gold, vice
president of creative services for A&M Records. ``I can remember
five years ago that $100,000 was an unthinkable amount, and now
$100,000 is a regular cost for a major production.''
   ``Three years ago, I said there was no market for music videos
in retail stores. That holds true today. We don't even stock it _
it just isn't worth it to us,'' said Allan Caplan of Omaha-based
Applause Video, with 85 retail outlets.
   Caplan said only so-called ``longform'' videos, usually concert
documentaries or rock music movies such as Pink Floyd's ``The
Wall,'' do reasonably well. But those aren't really classified as
videos.
   Record companies, who finance artists' video production, tend to
view music videos as strictly a promotional vehicle, according to
Jack Rovner, a marketing vice president for CBS Records. The
companies usually make the initial outlay for the production then
seek repayment tied to the success of the record the video is
promoting.
   ``But 85 percent of our records fail to break even, and in that
case we shoulder the entire cost,'' Gold said.
   There is some recovery for record companies through fees charged
for exclusive use of videos on broadcast outlets, but that hardly
dents the production cost.
   ``What has changed in the past five years is the amount of
scrutiny about why we are doing a video: What is it going to yield
for the artist? Can we get a placement (air time) for the video?
And will we realize our goals and the artist's goals,'' Rovner said.
   A new standard practice for newly signed artists at CBS and
other major labels is a screen test. An artist's first step to
getting a video may be his or her last.
   But even visually exciting acts have decided a video may not be
the way to the top of the charts.
   ``It's always been our feeling that you should come see the band
live, because there's no way to translate the energy and the
excitement of what goes on stage and try to put it inside a box the
size of a TV set,'' said Alex Van Halen, drummer of the rock group
Van Halen.
   For its ``5150'' album, Van Halen released no promotional
videos, but later made a concert-length film from which video
programs edited some clips. Similarly, the band has decided to
promote its ``OU812'' album with a concert. Both albums reached the
top of the charts without a video.
   ``Sometimes we will kick back and spend the (promotional) money
putting a band on the road,'' said A&M's Gold. ``You can put a band
out on the road for a long time for what it costs to do a video,
and in some cases, the money is better spent.''
   Music videos rose to prominence in the early 1980s, but short
promotional clips and segments from filmed concerts or shows have
been popular since the '50s.
   No one denies that videos played in heavy rotation on Music
Television (MTV), Video Hits One (VH-1) or Black Entertainment
Television (BET), can mean big sales and instant recognition.
   ``Music video is as powerful, if not more so, than it has ever
been,'' MTV senior vice president Lee Masters said.
   He noted, for example, that in the week of June 27, MTV had
broken 10 acts of the Top 40 listings.
   ``In spite of the fact that MTV will be adding more non-music
programming, we have never had this many acts represented in the
Top 40,'' he said.
   Like other music video outlets, MTV has matured in its seven
years, with 17 out of 168 weekly hours now devoted to non-video
programs. The video rotation has dropped from 120 to 80 clips, and
audience analysis has begun to determine what videos are presented,
and when.
   One such change was the scheduling of ``Club MTV,'' a mix of new
music videos and dance videos appreciated by younger teen-agers,
for 3:30 p.m. when school generally lets out.
   Outlets have refused to show some videos whose content they
consider controversial, such as drug use, explicit sexuality or
nudity. Record companies also have to take into account that videos
are presented in European markets on regular television, sometimes
on children's shows.
   ``You can't have anyone smoking _ nothing risque. There's a
whole list of things,'' said A&M's Gold.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Thu AMs, July 21</NOTE>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0248 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0005EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a i AM-AirTrafficJams Adv25   07-19 1065</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Air Traffic Jams, Adv 25,1103</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv25</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Mon AMs, July 25, and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>Sharp Increase in World Air Traffic Worries Industry Officials</HEAD>
<HEAD>An AP Extra</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By GIRARD C. STEICHEN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>FRANKFURT, West Germany (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Commercial airliners are filling
the skies in ever increasing numbers, causing backups and delays
that worry industry officials and leave passengers grumbling in
airport waiting lounges.
   Industry officials in Europe predict one of the gloomiest
summers ever for flight delays as air traffic controllers struggle
to allocate slots to a record number of flights in already crowded
skies.
   One of the reasons is the makeup of Europe itself. Unlike the
United States, where airspace is controlled by a single aviation
authority, European airspace is divided into 34 different parcels,
each under different jurisdiction.
   At the same time, ``the air traffic industry is booming beyond
anyone's previous predictions,'' said Klaus-Ulrich Moeller, a
spokesman for West Germany's Lufthansa international airline.
   The number of flights is also growing in the Far East, but
officials in Japan and Hong Kong, two of the Orient's major
commercial air hubs, say the competiton for airspace has not yet
reached European proportions.
   ``During the peak season, booking a seat will be very difficult
and planes will be very, very full,'' said Geoffrey Tudor, a
spokesman for Japan Airlines in Tokyo.
   But he added that conditions in the Far East were not comparable
to the traffic jam in Western Europe's skies.
   At terminals throughout Europe, tourists are fuming, business
travelers are grumbling and air traffic controllers are protesting.
   At England's Manchester International Airport recently, several
hundred British tourists recently waited up to 20 hours to get off
the ground.
   Airport officials rushed 700 extra seats into the airport's
waiting lounges and provided clowns and jugglers to keep passengers
entertained.
   In West Germany, tourists staged a sit-in aboard a jetliner
after they were told that their flight, which had arrived three
hours late from Majorca in the Mediterranean, could not continue on
to Hamburg because the airport there had closed for the night.
Airport authorities called in police to remove the passengers.
   Lufthansa officials say some of the airline's ground employees
have been threatened by angry passengers. Frustrated passengers
broke into tears after 23 flights were cancelled in one day at
Munich's airport, officials said.
   Lufthansa spokesman Moeller said the costs of such delays can be
staggering for airlines.
   He added that Lufthansa jets alone have spent 4,000 hours in
holding patterns so far this year over West German airports and
estimated that the delays will cost more than $55 million in fuel,
wages and maintenance.
   ``Civil aviation authorities (in Europe) were not prepared for
the new surge in traffic,'' said a spokesman for the International
Civil Aviation Organization in Paris. ``They had not made
investments in new equipment, nor hired or trained personnel.''
   Many air traffic controllers agreed.
   ``It is not humanly possible to handle 700 flights within 10
hours as we are asked to do regularly during the busy summer
tourist season,'' said a senior air traffic controller at El Prat
airport in Barcelona, Spain.
   A delay in England, France or West Germany can cause a ripple
effect on runways throughout the continent, controllers say.
   The 170-airline International Air Transport Association (IATA)
says the gap between the demand for air travel and capacity will
continue in Europe unless governments take coordinated action.
   ``We have airports and airspace capacity which can barely cope
with today's demand, let alone tomorrow's,'' said Gunter Eser,
IATA's director general.
   According to the Geneva-based association's statistics,
international air traffic increased by 13 percent last year and is
continuing at that rate this year.
   European air traffic also reached 13 percent in 1987, and is
expected to increase by at least 7 percent this year.
Trans-Atlantic flights, some airline officials say, could jump by
as much as 10 percent this year.
   Industry officials in Japan say a record number of Japanese are
traveling overseas to take advantage of the increased value of the
yen.
   According to figures compiled by Japan's Narita Aviation
Authority, the number of flights to the United States from Japan
increased 17.2 percent in 1987 over the previous year.
   Flights to Australia and New Zealand increased by more that 31
percent, according to the authority.
   Air traffic to South Korea jumped by 12.8 percent and flights to
China increased by almost 10 percent, the authority said.
   Taipei, a major transit point for many trans-Pacific flights,
logged a record 11,244 flights from Hong Kong, a 20.4 percent
increase over last year, officials in Hong Kong said.
   Aviation officials in Europe admit they were caught behind in
technology and in contol-tower manpower. But they add that European
airspace suffers from unique limitations.
   ``Two thirds of our airspace is reserved for the military,''
Lufthansa's Moeller said.
   Calls are growing for greater access to restricted military
airspace, especially in West Germany, where the air forces of NATO
nations fly regular training maneuvers.
   West Germany is planning to pump millions into upgrading its air
traffic control technology over the next fews years and has
approved pay raises for controllers.
   Measures also are being taken to extend night operations at many
European airports.
   To cope with the summer vacation rush, transport ministers of
the European Economic Community recently agreed to set up a ``red
alert'' telephone link among Western Europe's five busiest
airports: London, Frankfurt, Paris, Rome and Madrid.
   A crisis center also was set up to coordinate air traffic during
the busiest summer weekends.
   But aviation experts say no long-term solution can be found
until a pan-European data processing and central control system is
set up.
   Air traffic control computers in Western Europe's 34 different
jurisdictions cannot communicate directly with each other now.
   ``Flights often go over small countries in just five or six
minutes and that country's air controllers must hand over the
flight to the next country,'' said Joachim Lischka, chairman of the
West German Civil Aviation Authority.
   ``What we really need is a central European authority to create
more efficient, less fragmented work.''
   But Lischka said it may take years to put a unified system into
operation.
   In the meantime, he added, passengers can take some consolation
in the fact that most delays occur in the cause of safety.
   ``They just don't take off until we can handle them,'' he said.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Mon AMs, July 25</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0249 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0040EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a i AM-PunjabFarming Adv26   07-19 0667</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Punjab Farming, Adv 26,0687</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv26</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Tue AMs, July 26, and Thereafter</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By HARBAKSH SINGH NANDA</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>LUDHIANA, India (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Fear of more killing here in troubled
Punjab has brought on an acute farm-labor shortage just as the
season begins for transplanting rice.
   Agriculture officials are concerned the shortage will not only
affect the economy of Punjab, the nation's breadbasket, but the
national economy as well, because the country depends on this
northern state's surplus to supply less developed regions.
   An estimated one-third of the 700,000 migrants who normally work
in Punjab fled in May after a spate of attacks by Sikh militants
left more than 70 poor Hindu migrants dead. Large but still
undetermined numbers are staying away now, officials and farmers
say.
   ``Earlier these laborers used to beg for jobs,'' said Pritam
Singh, a farmer in Horshiarpur district. ``Now the farmers have to
beg before these workers. Times have changed.''
   The 58-year-old Singh is among the hardest hit because he leases
his 100-acre farm from a landlord and must come up with rent no
matter what. He had 14 migrant laborers working the land, but only
four are on the job.
   Most of the migrants come from the poorer states of Bihar and
Uttar Pradesh to the southeast. They usually work through the
various seasons for wheat, corn, sugarcane and rice, going home in
between.
   Sikh militants fighting for a separate nation in Punjab have
attacked both Hindus and moderate Sikhs since 1982. Nearly 1,500
deaths this year have been blamed on the radicals from the minority
faith.
   But the Sikh rebels did not particularly target migrant workers
until May, when 31 migrants were killed in an attack on a canal
project the militants oppose because it would carry water to the
Hindu-majority states of Haryana and Rajasthan.
   A series of other attacks ensued, killing 40 other workers, and
the exodus of migrants began.
   Punjab agricultural officials say few workers are coming back
despite programs to ensure the workers' safety.
   They also note that some farmers are switching to planting
sunflowers for their seeds because they take less labor than rice.
   Punjab has greatly increased rice production in recent years,
from 4.5 million metric tons in 1984 to 6 million metric tons last
year, by offering bonuses to farmers planting the crop. A metric
ton is 2,205 pounds.
   But I.S. Brar, a state agricultural official, said he doubted
this year's production would be much above last year's output,
which was badly affected by drought.
   This year, the rains came but the workers have not.
   It was unclear if the labor shortage would cut the amount Punjab
farmers sell this year to India's central grain reserve, which is
intended to relieve food shortages anywhere in the country.
   Over the last three years, which were times of drought in much
of India, Punjab has produced more than half the rice and 60
percent of the wheat the government bought for the central reserve.
   Even the offer of wages substantially higher than those offered
at home has not enticed the migrant workers. In Punjab, they can
earn more than 600 rupees ($43) a month, plus free food, more than
double the wages in the poorer states of central India.
   A 29-year-old migrant who gave his name only as Kalu said he
fled after the May killings, but returned because he could find no
work in Uttar Pradesh state.
   ``The money I had saved was spent in a week's time,'' he said.
``If I don't work, what would I and my family eat?''
   Kalu has a wife and three children and said he returned to
Punjab against his wife's wishes. He added that he failed to
persuade other migrants to come with him.
   Another farm worker, Ram Chander, 26, said he came back despite
the troubles.
   ``Why worry about death?'' he said. ``You can die of sudden
heart failure and you can survive bullet injuries, too.''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Tue AMs, July 26</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0250 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1423EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a a AM-ReligionToday Adv22   07-19 0839</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Religion Today, Adv 22,0866</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv22</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Fri AMs, July 22, and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>Leaders Seek To Safeguard Religious Liberty Guarantees</HEAD>
<NOTE>With Laserphoto</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By GEORGE W. CORNELL</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Religion Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A broad cross-section of American leaders says a
distinctive hallmark of the nation _ free, non-established religion
_ is threatened by modern battling over it.
   They've sought to stake out some common ground to protect that
principle of religious liberty.
   In the conflicts, the pendulum was described as having swung in
American history from one pole to another _ from religious to
secular semi-establishments.
   But the standard is set by Constitution's First Amendment:
``Congress shall make no law regarding an establishment of
religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereoff.''
   In the shifting applications of these doubled-edged clauses,
controversy lately has ballooned and confusion multiplied about
relationships of church and state, faith and politics.
   The issue has frayed political campaigns and engulfed the
courts. More lawsuits about it have landed in the U.S. Supreme
Court in the last 25 years than in all the nation's previous
history.
   The ``controversies over religion in public life pose both a
danger and an opportunity,'' says an unusual, new document, the
Williamsburg Charter, backed by a wide spectrum of religious,
academic, business and political leaders.
   Citing dangers either of forcing religion out of public affairs
or, in reaction, politicizing faith for laws to establish a
``Christian America,'' the charter calls for a ``renewed national
compact'' about it.
   Social scientist Os Guinness of Washington, D.C., head of the
project, says ``any sense of shared agreement about the place of
religion and politics has broken down.''
   He says ``recurring conflicts and the flood of cases about
textbooks, prayer, abortion, and an infinite number of things''
will intensify unless there is a process for restored consensus.
   ``It's important not just to religion but to democracy,'' he
said in an interview. ``Without it, there's danger down the line.''
   He described the new charter, already endorsed by about 150
national leaders in various fields and expected to be signed by
many others in state meetings this fall, as like the ``Queensbury
Rules'' that restrained boxing from sheer destructiveness.
   ``It sets forth the place of religion in public life _ that's
the heart of it _ and also guiding principles by which people of
different religions or none can debate and contend robustly but
with civility,'' he said.
   The 6,000-word charter says the constitution's ``religious
liberty provisions hold the key to American distinctiveness and
American destiny.''
   The guaranteed rights depend on recognition that ``they are
neither given by the state, nor can they be taken away by the
state,'' but are inherent in belief in the ``inviolability of the
human person,'' the charter says.
   It says the meaning of those provisions is ignored whenever
``the logic of arguments favors either an unwarranted intrusion of
religion into public life or an unwarranted exclusion of religion
from it.''
   Until well into the 20th century, the charter says that there
was a ``de facto semi-establishment'' of a generalized
Protestantism, especially in the public schools.
   But now, the tendency was seen as swinging the other way
``toward the de facto semi-establishment of a wholly secular
understanding'' of humanity and public institutions.
   The charter aims at mapping a middle course between the secular
left, which has worked to push religion out of public life, and the
religious right, which wants religious premises to predominate.
   The document, drawn up by the Williamsburg Charter Foundation, a
private, public-policy organization funded by individuals and
corporations, has gained an impressive array of backers.
   They include present and former chief justices, the chairmen of
the Republican and Democratic National Committees, Congress
members, corporate executives, educators and various faith leaders,
evangelical and mainline.
   However, it so far hasn't gained support of some aggressive
antagonists such as the American Civil Liberties Union, which
opposes religion in the public sphere, and Moral Majority, which
wants them prevailing there.
   The charter says religion too often is dimissed as a ``purely
private matter,'' but this ignores the fact that the American
system depends on ``ultimate beliefs, for otherwise we have no
right to the rights'' it upholds.
   The First Amendment guarantee of no interference with religion
puts ``religious expression on an equal footing with all other
forms of expressing in genuinely public forums,'' the charter says.
   It says that some in recent disputes have ``insisted that any
evidence of religious influence on public policy represents an
establishment of religion and is therefore precluded...
   ``Such exclusion of religion from public life is historically
unwarranted, philosophically inconsistent and profoundly
undemocratic...Many of the most dynamic social movements in
American history, including that of civil rights, were legitimately
inspired and shaped by religious motivation.''
   However, the document criticizes religionists who ``bring to
politics a misplaced absoluteness that idolizes politics,
`Satanizes' their enemies and politicizes their own faith.''
   In the conflict, participants often have been acrimonious and
unfair, the charter says, urging greater balance, mutual respect
and civility.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Fri AMs, July 22</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0251 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1424EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a a AM-ReligionRdp Adv22   07-19 0610</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Religion Rdp, Adv 22 ,0635</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv22</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Fri AMs, July 22, and Thereafter</NOTE>
<DATELINE>TUPELO, Miss. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The head of the American Family Association
says Universal Pictures will be committing ``financial suicide'' if
it releases the movie, ``The Last Temptation of Christ.''
   The Rev. Donald E. Wildmon, executrive director of AFA, says he
sent copies of the script to 200 top Christian officials and those
who have read it are appalled.
   ``It is absolutely the most perverted, distorted account of the
historical and biblical Jesus I have ever read,'' says Wildmon, a
United Methodist minister.
   Thew movie, based on a novel by Nikos Kazantzakis, was scheduled
to be released this fall.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>CHICAGO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   In the face of drought across mid-America, Bishop
Herbert W. Chilstrom, head of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in
America, urges prayers in all its congregations that God ``send
rain to the thirsty ground.''
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The American Jewish Congress says a Hawaii law
recognizing Good Friday as a legal holiday violates the
Constitutions's ban against establishing religion.
   The friend-of-court brief was filed with the federal appeals
court after a U.S. district court in Hawaii had upheld the holiday,
saying it gave residents a needed day of rest to do as they chose.
   The day commemorates the crucifixion of Christ.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Salvation Army has honored President
Reagan for his leadership in encouraging voluntary, private efforts
to help the needy.
   At a White House cerermony, he was presented with the Army's
``Others Award,'' saying his ``leadership has encouraged
voluntarism and private sector initiative to the benefit of others
in all parts of our society.''
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>PRINCETON, N.J. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A Gallup survey conducted shortly after
Nancy Reagan was reported to consult an astrologist found that 80
per cent of Americans do not believe in astrology.
   The poll of l,204 adults found that only 12 percent believe that
movement of heavily bodies influence human events, while 8 percent
said they don't know.
   However, 25 percent of Americans regularly read astrology
columns, although they're considerably more skeptical about it than
in 1978, when 29 percent said they believed in it.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>MOSCOW (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Relics have been returned to the Russian Orthodox
Church from state museums in the Kremlin, including relics of the
apostle Andrew, George the dragon slayer and John the Baptist, the
Soviet news agency Tass reports.
   Also included was material venerated as part of the cross on
which Jesus was crucified, the robes of Jesus' mother and the
Gospel writers Mark and Matthew, and the stone used to seal Jesus'
tomb.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A three-year agreement has been signed between
the United Methodist Board of Global Ministries and a newly formed
employees' association covering 193 non-executive staff members.
   The agreement, which replaces a union agreement, provides for a
pay increase of 7 percent this year, 6 percent in 1989 and 5
percent in 1990.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Causing damage to religious property or
interfering with a person's free exercise of religion is now a
federal crime under a law recently approved by Congress and signed
by President Reagan.
   It makes those who engage in interstate activity to damage
religious property because of its religious character or obstruct
by force or threat anyone's free exercise of religion subject to
fines and prison sentences.
   In debate on the legislation, members of Congress pointed to
increased incidents of religious violence and vandalism. Sen. Paul
Simon, D-Ill., said, ``Congress is sending a clear signal that the
desecrations, the injuries, the deaths are intolerable in a free
society such as ours.''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv Fri AMs June 22.</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0252 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1425EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a a BC-PersonalFile-Weinstein Adv22   07-19 1069</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Personal File-Weinstein, Adv 22,1103</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv22</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Friday July 22 and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>Stan Weinstein, Stock Strategist: `You Make Your Own Luck'</HEAD>
<HEAD>LaserPhoto NY12 of July 18</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By RICK GLADSTONE</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Business Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   When hordes of panicky investors dumped stocks
last Oct. 19, Stan Weinstein basked in the wisdom of a personal
adage, ``You make your own luck.'' He had warned his newsletter
readers a month earlier to cash out.
   ``I sounded like a real party pooper,'' recalled the market
strategist and publisher of ``The Professional Tape Reader,'' which
proclaimed an alert in mid-August to switch from stocks into other
investments.
   As it turned out, he was one of the few professional tipsters
who predicted Wall Street's dazzling rally was about to collapse.
   Since then, Weinstein said, he has received hundreds of letters
from grateful subscribers who told him, ``You saved my life.''
   His prescient warning earned him the title of ``Timer of the
Year,'' bestowed by the market publication ``Timer Digest.'' It
also landed him guest spots on such television shows as
``Moneyline'' and ``Wall Street Week'' and inspired sales of his
recent book about investing, ``Secrets for Profiting in Bull and
Bear Markets.''
   The fame and publicity are mixed blessings to Weinstein, a
transplanted New Yorker who works out of his Hollywood, Fla., house
and does most of his analysis with a pencil and paper.
   His newsletter business is booming at a time when many
competitors are suffering a decline in subscriptions, a direct
result of the October crash.
   On the other hand, Weinstein said, he now spends extended
periods on the lecture circuit away from his home, wife and three
daughters, gets hoarse talking about his strategies, misses
swatting a tennis ball and sometimes just wants to vegetate in his
backyard pool.
   ``I don't want to be a guru,'' Weinstein said during an
interview in New York. ``I don't want the idiot investor who's
looking for the perfect stock strategist. The stock market is sort
of like gambling, it's another form of probability playing. I'm a
real good probability player.''
   As for luck, the 46-year-old Weinstein said, ``I don't go for
that. I think you make your own luck.''
   Weinstein wouldn't disclose his worth or income from the
newsletter business but dropped a few hints _ through the jewelry
on his fingers and a big gold watch on his right wrist.
   ``It's very, very lucrative,'' he said. ``The newsletter costs
$275 a year and I've got 12,000 subscribers. You figure it out.''
   Weinstein's professional and personal lives are so intertwined
that wife Rita is his business manager, overseeing an eight-member
staff that works in an office addition to their house.
   He said he typically works a 15-hour day, often late at night,
on the twice-monthly newsletter. He exercises by jogging on a
treadmill machine while watching the Financial News Network on
cable TV.
   That's not to imply he thinks business headlines are useful,
however. As a technical analyst, Weinstein dismisses interest-rate
forecasts, government economic reports, corporate earnings and
dividends as ``yesterday's news.''
   Rather, his approach is based on a stock's charted behavior over
time, which reflects what Weinstein calls its differing stages of
supply and demand. Learning how to interpret those stages correctly
is the key to success in the stock market, he said.
   The broader market barometers, such as the Dow Jones industrial
average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, react in much
the same way as individual stocks do and can flash significant
signals about future opportunity or risk.
   Even when he vacations with his family, the newsletter must go
on. Weinstein said he's dictated copy via telephone from holiday
spots ranging from Israel to Hong Kong. He nearly had a disaster,
though, when he went to the South Pacific island Bora-Bora on a
deadline day.
   ``I found out after I arrived there was no phone,'' he said. ``I
spent half a day making arrangements for a mobile telephone hookup.
Well, that's the price I've gotta pay. I'm not going to lie. It's
always with me.''
   Weinstein's approach isn't infallible; he readily admits he can
be wrong. But he claims his percentage of error is often less than
others in the same business.
   Many of Weinstein's contemporaries agree. Veteran strategist
Yale Hirsch, publisher of the Stock Trader's Almanac, named
Weinstein's ``Secrets of Profiting in Bull and Bear Markets'' as
book of the year.
   ``It's very comprehensive,'' Hirsch said. ``For the average
investor who doesn't know too much, you don't need any computers.
It's a nice discipline.''
   Robert Nurock, publisher of the widely read Astute Investor
newsletter, said Weinstein ``gives a very strong case for technical
analysis. His book is an excellent guide.''
   Weinstein said he's is flattered by the praise and hopes the
book will continue to sell. But what if everyone started using
Weinstein's methods and no longer sought his advice?
   ``It's not going to happen,'' he said. ``Most people don't trust
technicians. They say we just use squiggles and wiggles. I'm
looking for the sophisticated investors.''
   Weinstein said he's been playing the market for more than 30
years. He started by using his barmitzvah money to buy a handful of
what he thought were high-quality stocks. That's when he learned
the hard way about the risks of ignorant investing: ``Within a
couple of years I blew the whole thing.''
   He developed his strategies for the best time to buy and sell
based largely on an early career as a stockbroker and his own
common sense, not from his BA in economics from Hofstra University
on Long Island.
   ``I had to learn to put my degree on the side,'' he said. ``The
economics of today is the bull for tomorrow.''
   Weinstein quit working for someone else in 1970 and went into
newsletter writing, slowly developing a base of subscribers. He
abandoned brokering, he said, ``because I was upset with the boss's
churn'em and burn'em philosophy.''
   Although he gets hundreds of complimentary letters, Weinstein
said, occasionally he'll receive a nasty note from a disgruntled
subscriber, which he keeps in a separate file.
   ``I once got one that said, `Mr. Weinstein, my barber knows more
about stocks than you do,''' he recalled. ``It was a guy who had
subscribed for two weeks. I wrote him back and said I didn't think
we were the right newsletter for him. I returned his money.''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Friday editions, July 22</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0253 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0635EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>s a BC-APN--Missionaries-Terrorism Adv31   07-19 0953</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-APN--Missionaries-Terrorism, Adv 31,0980</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv31</NOTE>
<HEAD>AGENCIES AND RADIO OUT</HEAD>
<NOTE>For Release Sunday, July 31</NOTE>
<HEAD>From AP Newsfeatures</HEAD>
<NOTE>(APN SUNDAY ILLUSTRATIONS: Mailed print subscribers get 1 b&w
photo.)</NOTE>
<TEXT>
   
   EDITOR'S NOTE _ The 100,000 American missionaries in foreign
lands are becoming more vulnerable as security tightens around more
conventional targets of terrorists. But an unusual organization is
teaching hundreds of them how to reduce the danger, short of hiring
armed guards and driving armor-plated cars.
</TEXT>
<BYLINE>By KATHY EYRE</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>OXFORD, Miss. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Taking some cues from the Bible itself, a
group of Christian law enforcement specialists and other volunteers
is teaching American missionaries abroad how to protect themselves
from terrorists.
   As security tightens around the traditional political and
economic targets, terrorists are striking at the more vulnerable
religious community overseas, according to Chester L. Quarles of
Oxford, one of the founders of the unusual organization.
   Quarles, the director of the University of Mississippi's law
enforcement program, helped form Contingency Preparation
Consultants, a private non-profit group based in Ventura, Calif.,
that has provided anti-terrorism training for more than 500
missionaries from 18 denominations.
   ``We believe God is in control. But we believe as in Ephesians
6:10-18 that we should put on the whole armor of God and use all of
the knowledge, skill and ability we have to survive as soul-winning
evangelical Christians,'' Quarles tells people attending his
workshops.
   ``A missionary cannot afford an armor-plated Mercedes-Benz and
would not want an armed guard,'' Quarles says. But missionaries can
be taught ways to avoid becoming victims of terrorism and increase
their chances of not being harmed if kidnapped or involved in a
plane hijacking.
   ``We see this as a ministry,'' says Quarles, the son of the late
Chester L. Quarles Sr., who served for years as executive secretary
and treasurer of the Southern Baptist Convention Board. ``Each of
us had a deep desire to put our specialized knowledge, skills and
expertise to work in the service of the Lord. We come from
different denominational backgrounds but share the bond of Christ's
love.''
   Others helping in the training of missionaries are Ted Childress
of Knoxville, Tenn., a retired FBI agent who is now director of
training for a major defense contractor; Richard Farley of La
Jolla, Calif., a clinical psychologist; and Bob Klamser of Ventura,
Calif., a police lieutenant who commands his department's Hostage
Negotiation Team.
   Quarles says that in the past two years he's traveled to nine
countries to conduct his anti-terrorism workshops, which last 2{
days. Quarles has had several articles published in the
non-denominational ``Evangelical Missions Quarterly'' and he's
writing a book on missionaries and terrorism.
   Almost 50 American missionaries have suffered violent deaths
around the world in the past 20 years, including two from the
Kansas City Pentecostal Fellowship who were among 10 people hacked
to death by terrorists last November in Zimbabwe.
   Klamser, the president of Contingency Preparation Consultants,
says he personally knows of eight American missionaries who have
suffered violent deaths abroad in the past five years.
   Four missionaries are currently being held hostage.
   While most of the missionaries have been released unharmed,
Quarles expects ``things to get worse before they get better.''
   America's 100,000 missionaries abroad ``are being singled out
more by terrorists,'' he says. ``But they're not being focused upon
because they are Christians. They're being focused upon because
they're Americans and they're Westerners.''
   The U.S. government and private corporations have spent millions
of dollars beefing up security at offices overseas, and there about
30 private organizations worldwide specializing in anti-terrorist
training.
   But Quarles says missionary groups can't afford to bring in
private help.
   Contingency asks for reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses,
such as travel. The workshop speakers donate their time.
   The missionaries also turn to Contingency Preparation
Consultants because the group provides instructors with a Christian
background.
   Often the zeal of the missionaries makes them unduly confident
in troubled lands, putting themselves as well as others in danger,
Quarles says. For example, it took a lot of talking to persuade one
Protestant missionary in Honduras to leave the village where he was
serving even though intelligence sources had indicated he was
targeted by a terrorist group. He eventually left, for the sake of
the village.
   Each anti-terrorism workshop begins with several scriptural
references illustrating the concepts to be taught. For example,
Paul and Silas fled enemies in Thessalonica even though local
church members had asked them to stay.
   David Archibald is among those who have attended Quarles'
workshop. He moved in June from Waxhaw, N.C., to Peru on
administrative assignment for Jungle Aviation and Radio Service,
the technical support arm of Wycliffe Bible Translators of Dallas.
   Wycliffe has hundreds of people in 48 countries and wanted its
staff to be more aware of security. Archibald says he had traveled
in foreign countries while working for private industry, but had
never heard many of the safety tips provided by Quarles.
   ``The typical thing was to have a business card on your
briefcase,'' Archibald says. ``Quarles cautioned that that was an
invitation to a terrorist'' looking for someone with an
administrative or ecclesiastical position.
   ``If you are traveling in an area where airline hijackings
occur, Quarles said to stay away from doors, don't sit next to the
aisle where terrorists can more easily reach you. Things like that
I hadn't thought of,'' he said.
   Mission Aviation Fellowship of Redlands, Calif., began using
Quarles' workshops following the abduction of 33-year-old pilot Dan
Rogers in Surinam. Rogers was kidnapped by the group ``Jungle
Commandos'' last Oct. 30 and released unharmed on Nov. 7.
   ``In our opinion, they're one of the best,'' says Marianne
Pielin, executive assistant to the president of Mission Aviation.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Sunday, July 31</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0254 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0636EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>s e BC-APN--TVWeek Adv31   07-19 0790</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-APN--TV Week, Adv31,0810</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv31</NOTE>
<HEAD>AGENCIES AND RADIO OUT</HEAD>
<NOTE>For Release Sunday, July 31</NOTE>
<HEAD>From AP Newsfeatures</HEAD>
<NOTE>(APN SUNDAY ILLUSTRATIONS: Mailed print subscribers get 1 b&w
photo. ColorFoto subscribers get 1 35mm slide.)</NOTE>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
<BYLINE>By JERRY BUCK</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Television Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>LOS ANGELES (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Dana Delany insists that ``China Beach,'' the
new series about the Vietnam War, is based on real life.
   Delany stars as Nurse Colleen McMurphy, who is assigned to a
medical evacuation center located at China Beach, near Da Nang in
Vietnam. It's also the site of a recreation facility for American
troops.
   The series, which made its bow on ABC in April, was created by
writer-producer John Sacret Young and William Broyles Jr., a Marine
officer in Vietnam and a former Newsweek editor.
   Some people who were in Vietnam, either in the service or as
news correspondents, have criticized the show, saying they never
saw anything like ``China Beach.''
   Delany disagrees.
   ``Broyles was in Vietnam and our stories are all based on things
that happened,'' she says. ``One of our writers was a radio
operator there.''
   Delany says she's done some research on her own about Vietnam
and hopes to go there this Christmas. An uncle, Kevin Delany, was
the head of ABC News in Vietnam and was evacuated on one of the
last helicopters out of Saigon before the fall of the city.
   ``China Beach'' focuses on the women in Vietnam. Chloe Webb, who
will not be back next season as a regular, portrays USO singer
Laurette Barber and Nan Woods is Red Cross worker Cherry White.
   ``One of the criticisms has been directed against the Red Cross
girl, that the men in the show put her on a pedestal,'' Delany
says. ``In drama you need archetypes. Cherry White was the
innocent, although by the sixth show she was no longer innocent.
And the men were very protective.''
   As for her own character, Delany says, ``Colleen in the two-hour
movie pilot was much different from Colleen in the episodes. She's
changed so much. She's guarded emotionally because of all the pain
and death she sees on a daily basis.''
   Although only the two-hour pilot and six episodes were made of
``China Beach,'' it has become one of the most popular shows on ABC
and one of the most critically acclaimed.
   Delany is just back from a visit to Italy, where her sister is
living temporarily. She also went to the Cannes film festival for
the showing of ``Patty,'' a new film about the kidnapping of
Patricia Hearst on Feb. 4, 1974, by the Symbionese Liberation Army.
She plays Angela Attwood, a member of the SLA who was killed in the
Watts shoot-out.
   ``I was in prep school at Phillips Andover Academy when she was
kidnapped,'' she says. ``A friend of mine at Andover had known
Patty. I saved a Time magazine story about her. Patty and her
husband came to Cannes for the screening. The movie, due out in
August, is based on her book and is very favorable to her.''
   Delany worked on ``Patty'' at the same time as the ``China
Beach'' pilot. She also will be seen soon in ``Moon Over Parador,''
a comedy made in Brazil which stars Richard Dreyfuss and Raul
Julia. Dreyfuss plays an American actor forced to assume the role
of a Latin American dictator who has died suddenly. Julia is the
power behind the scenes. Delany plays an actress in the movie
Dreyfuss was working on.
   ``The movie we were supposedly filming is like `Miami Vice,'''
she says. ``Richard has a Don Johnson look, with the hair and the
white suit.''
   ``Moon Over Parador'' was her second movie in Brazil. She also
did ``When the River Runs Black'' with Charles Durning.
   Delany grew up in New York City and attended Wesleyan
University. After college, she worked in New York for seven years,
appearing in the soap operas ``Love of Life'' and ``As The World
Turns'' and the off-Broadway production of ``Bloodmoon.'' She moved
to the West with the play and caught the eye of producer-actor
James Keach. She was cast as Keith Carradine's girlfriend in the TV
movie ``A Winner Never Quits.''
   She was Tom Selleck's girlfriend in ``Magnum, P.I.'' (she turned
down his proposal of marriage) and Bruce Willis' girlfriend in
``Moonlighting.'' She was also Peter Horton's girlfriend in ABC's
``thirtysomething.''
   Her only other series was a brief stint in NBC's ``Sweet
Surrender.''
   ``It was a sitcom and I prefer drama,'' she says. ``Comedy is
more of a writer's medium. It's all about getting a laugh. I like
reality. On `China Beach' my job is to remind people of the war, so
that we can keep that edge of reality.''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Sunday, July 31</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0255 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0642EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>s e BC-APN--TheaterWeek Adv31   07-19 1103</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-APN--Theater Week, Adv 31,1134</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv31</NOTE>
<HEAD>AGENCIES AND RADIO OUT</HEAD>
<NOTE>For Release Sunday, July 31</NOTE>
<HEAD>From AP Newsfeatures</HEAD>
<NOTE>(APN SUNDAY ILLUSTRATIONS: Mailed print subscribers get 1 b&w
photo. ColorFoto subscribers get 1 35mm slide.)</NOTE>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
<BYLINE>By MICHAEL KUCHWARA</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Drama Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   People recognize the melodies if not the man
behind the music:
   ``I Can Dream, Can't I?'', ``I'll Be Seeing You,'' ``Dear Hearts
and Gentle People,'' ``Let a Smile Be Your Umbrella,'' ``That Old
Feeling,'' ``By a Waterfall,'' ``When I Take My Sugar to Tea,''
``Wedding Bells Are Breaking Up That Old Gang of Mine.''
   These and scores of other songs are the life's work of Sammy
Fain.
   At 86, Fain is one of the last of a breed of songwriters who
wrote their way from Tin Pan Alley to Broadway to Hollywood during
the golden days between the two World Wars. Give them a job and
they'd write a song _ fast.
   ``You know, you'd get an assignment on Monday,'' Fain says
matter-of-factly, ``and they'd be rehearsing the orchestra by
Thursday. It's one of those things.''
   If his name isn't as well-known as a Rodgers, Gershwin, Porter
or Berlin, it may be because he never had a big Broadway musical,
although Fain did write the music for ``Hellzapoppin,'' the
long-running vaudeville escapade remembered more for the antics of
comics Ole Olson and Chic Johnson than its songs.
   The success that eluded Fain on Broadway was found in Hollywood:
dozens of film assignments, 10 Academy Award nominations and two
best-song Oscars for ``Secret Love'' and ``Love Is a Many
Splendored Thing.''
   Now theatergoers have a chance to sample a Fain rarity, ``Ankles
Aweigh,'' a 1955 Broadway musical that had nothing more on its mind
than gags, girls and a good time.
   The show is on view at the Goodspeed Opera House, that
ginger-box musical museum in East Haddam, Conn., best known as the
birthplace of ``Annie'' and for its sterling revivals of vintage
musicals from the 1920s and '30s. It will run through Sept. 30.
   A new book has been written for the musical by Charles Busch,
author and star of the long-running off-Broadway hit, ``Vampire
Lesbians of Sodom.'' Busch's revamped plot, still set in the 1950s,
had something to do with Hollywood starlets, the U.S. Navy, Italy
and a secret code coveted by the Russians.
   ```Ankles Aweigh' is an old-fashioned show,'' Fain said the
other day during a visit to the headquarters of the American
Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers. ``It's got a lot of
good rhythmic tunes and ballads which I like to do.''
   Fain, whose family lived in New York, was born into music. His
father was a cantor. His older brother played violin in Broadway
pit orchestras. His cousin was Willie Howard, the great sad-faced
comedian.
   ``Every winter I would get pneumonia,'' Fain recalls, so the
family eventually moved from the city to the Catskills.
   ``Living up in the country, all I had was the piano,'' says
Fain, who taught himself to play and to write his own music. ``I
had a rather interesting little alto voice. I'd just get up and
sing my own material.''
   After high school, singing brought him back to New York and a
job as a staff pianist with Jack Mills who ran a music publishing
company.
   ``They hired me to demonstrate and teach their songs to all the
performing artists,'' Fain says. ``I would sell the songs to big
performers. It helped me learn to play in every key.''
   He also performed in vaudeville and on radio as part of an act
called Dunn and Fain. But he never stopping writing. His first hit
song, with lyrics by Al Dubin, was published in 1925. It's title
was ``Nobody Knows What a Redhead Mama Can Do,'' and Fain was on
his way.
   Two years later he teamed up with Irving Kahal, a young
vaudeville performer and writer. Their partnership took them to
Hollywood and back again to Broadway and lasted until Kahal died in
1942.
   In California, Fain and Kahal contributed songs to such movie
musical classics as ``Footlight Parade'' and ``Dames.'' The songs
they wrote during those days were sweet and saucy with titles like
``Two Little Flies on a Lump of Sugar'' and ``When You Were a Smile
on Your Mother's Lips (And a Twinkle in Your Daddy's Eye).''
   ``A good title is an incentive to me,'' Fain says. ``I'll change
my melody if I hear a good line. I'm not stubborn about it. That's
collaboration.''
   And Fain has worked with some of the best word men in the
business. Besides Kahal, his lyricists have included Al Dubin, Jack
Yellen, E.Y. Harburg, Mitchell Parish, Joe Young, Lew Brown, Ralph
Freed and Paul Francis Webster.
   ``When I play a good tune for a lyricist, it gives him some
construction,'' Fain says. ``Music can lead you to a different
construction and sometimes a good lyricist likes that. It gives
them a chance to dig for a different kind of rhyme.''
   ``Ankles Aweigh,'' which has lyrics by Dan Shapiro, originally
ran in New York for six months. Besides ``Hellzapoppin'' and its
sequel, ``Sons o' Fun,'' it was one of Fain's longer running
Broadway shows.
   Many of his other musicals, such as ``Christine,'' ``Something
More'' and ``Toplitsky of Notre Dame,'' disappeared quickly.
``Flahooley,'' a 1951 Fain musical that starred Yma Sumac, Barbara
Cook and Bil Baird's Marionettes, has developed an almost legendary
reputation.
   The score, one of Fain's best, graced a witty and satirical book
by E.Y. Harburg that told the story of a laughing doll and its
effect on the big business of toy-making.
   ``That show was the talk of Philadelphia,'' said Fain, recalling
``Flahooley's'' triumphant out-of-town opening. Only New York
seemed unimpressed and the musical died after only 40 performances.
   ``It was a very unusual show,'' Fain sats. ``Someday, somebody
will revive `Flahooley' and it will be a hit.''
   If the shows weren't successful, much of the music was. Consider
two of Fain's biggest hit songs _ ``I Can Dream, Can't I?'' and
``I'll Be Seeing You.'' They somehow survived a 1938 flop called
``Right This Way'' that lasted two weeks on Broadway.
   Fain keeps writing today _ turning out new songs at his home in
Beverly Hills, Calif.
   ``I like to read the script,'' Fain says. ``That gives me an
idea for a melody. Many times, I play a certain little progression
and the lyricist will say `That's great.' If he doesn't like it,
I'll switch it around to fit a line. We help each other. That's the
way to work.''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Sunday, July 31</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0256 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1523EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>s a BC-InVitroDecade Adv24-2Takes   07-19 1167</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-In Vitro Decade, Adv 24-2 Takes,1201</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv24</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Sunday, July 24, and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>10 Years After First `Test-Tube Baby,' Many Questions Remain</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Note anniversary is Monday, July 25</NOTE>
<HEAD>With LaserGraphic Logo</HEAD>
<NOTE>EDITOR'S NOTE </NOTE>
<TEXT>
   English schoolgirl Louise Joy Brown is about to
celebrate her 10th birthday, a milestone for her and for in vitro
fertilization, which since the girl's conception has given hope to
infertile couples around the world while also raising ethical
questions that won't go away.
</TEXT>
<BYLINE>By CHRISTOPHER SULLIVAN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NORFOLK, Va. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Doctors and nurses in scrub suits the colors
of sherbet wheeled another patient into the operating room for a
brief procedure placing fertilized eggs in her womb.
   Everyone involved hoped they would cling there and grow into a
pregnancy, but everyone knew they probably would not.
   The scene played out on a video monitor over the heads of
Georgeanna and Howard Jones, whose in vitro fertilization clinic
gets credit for about 400 ``test-tube babies,'' including the first
in this country.
   In a month, the woman on the screen would receive a phone call,
telling her whether or not she was pregnant. Roughly three times in
four, even at the best centers like the Jones Institute for
Reproductive Medicine at Eastern Virginia Medical School, the
answer is no.
   ``It's always hard,'' said the 77-year-old Dr. Howard, as
colleagues call him.
   ``But,'' said Dr. Georgeanna, who's 76, ``it more than
compensates when you call to say yes.''
   On Monday, it will be 10 years since in vitro technology was
proven with the birth of Louise Joy Brown in Britain, the first of
an estimated 10,000 such infants born to infertile couples around
the world.
   In vitro fertilization has become routine medicine, a
multimillion-dollar business and a catalyst of new ethical debate
with each research advance.
   At least 169 in vitro centers operate in 41 states in this
country alone, and with the proliferation have come questions that
practitioners and policy-makers are now being pressed to answer:
   _ Why isn't success more common?
   _ Are in vitro clinics and their practices adequately regulated?
   _ Why does in vitro cost so much _ $4,000 to $6,000 on average
per attempt _ and should insurance companies or taxpayers help pay
the bill?
   _ Why has the federal government maintained a de facto
moratorium on financing research?
   _ Have some clinics taken advantage of a vulnerable patient
population to make a profit?
   ``Some clinics are selling false hope,'' asserted Gary Ellis,
director of a just-completed study of infertility for the
congressional Office of Technology Assessment.
   ``A clinic knows if it has had any babies born. A clinic that
keeps admitting people in the front door and does not have any
births _ I ask you: what are they selling? They're selling false
hope.''
   He and others stressed that only a minority of clinics fell into
that category. But the vast market for infertility services _ 2
million to 3 million American couples unable to have babies _
enhances the danger of charlatanry and fraud.
   ``You can charge these people more, because they're more
desperate,'' said Gina de Miranda, who founded a consumer
protection group in Texas for infertile people after her own years
of frustration and sadness.
   ``What you've had is a whole lot of clinics opening all over the
United States with varying rates of success. And in order to break
even they've got to get more patients in and charge them as much as
they can,'' she said.
   Infertility treatments cost Americans $1 billion last year _ $66
million of that for what has become the treatment of last resort,
in vitro fertilization, according to the OTA study.
   Mrs. de Miranda, whose lobbying made Texas one of the five
states, along with Maryland, Massachusetts, Hawaii and Arkansas, to
require insurance companies to offer coverage of in vitro, advises
anyone thinking of the procedure to ask questions.
   Patients need to know more than the basics of in vitro: the
hormonal stimulation of the woman to produce more than one egg in a
month, the retrieval by doctors of as many eggs as possible, the
mixing of those eggs with the husband's sperm in a petri dish, and
the implanting of fertilized eggs, or embryos, in the uterus.
   Patients should ask, among other questions suggested by Mrs. de
Miranda's group: how long a program has been in operation, its rate
of live births, how many retrieval procedures recover a mature egg,
and how often the procedure is canceled before the embryo implant
stage.
   Success rates should be spelled out, she and others said,
stressing the need for clear definitions _ for example, a
``pregnancy'' defined early in chemical terms may never produce a
baby _ and hard numbers.
   A recent report by 41 U.S. in vitro centers claimed a combined
rate of clinical pregnancy, determined by detectable fetal
heartbeat, of 17 percent per embryo transfer. Calculating
miscarriages and other loss, the chance of having a baby after one
embryo transfer was 11 percent.
   The centers surveyed were among the nation's most successful;
scores of others still have recorded no births.
   The Jones Institute reported that 500 patients underwent 736
stimulation cycles last year. In 537 cases, embryos were
transferred. Of those, 169 clinical pregnancies occurred, or 23
percent per attempted stimulation; 29.5 percent per embryo
transfer. The miscarriage rate was 24 percent.
   Noting that even fertile couples have only a 25 percent chance
of achieving a pregnancy in any one month of trying, Howard Jones
said he's pleased with his center's total of about 400 babies to
date.
   ``It sounds so easy to do: you get an egg and get some sperm,
you put 'em together and you transfer them _ nothin' to it,'' he
said, smiling. ``In fact, it's not easy. It's a very demanding and
exacting science and art,'' to interpret sometimes contradictory
signals to harvest eggs at just the right moment of maturation.
   ``It just doesn't seem to be a technique that's easily taught
and transferable.''
   Even so, 41 states have at least one IVF center. California has
22, Texas 14 and New York 11, according to the OTA report. The nine
states without centers are Alaska, Arkansas, Idaho, Maine, Montana,
New Hampshire, North Dakota, South Dakota and Wyoming.
   Waiting lists for the established centers can be as long as two
years. But the report also noted, ``nearly half (of all centers)
have yet to achieve a live birth.''
   Most centers are not-for-profit, though some are for-profit
adjuncts of research hospitals and still others operate strictly as
profit-making concerns.
   ``Who monitors the quality of care at these clinics?'' asked
Rep. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., chairing a congressional committee hearing
last month on the proliferation of in vitro centers.
   Noting that guidelines set by a professional group, the American
Fertility Society, are voluntary, he answered his own question:
``There are no federal or state requirements for accreditation or
reporting. There is, in fact, no public accountability at all.''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>MORE</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0257 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1526EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>s a BC-InVitroDecade Adv24-1stAdd   07-19 0842</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-In Vitro Decade, Adv 24-1st Add,0872</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv24</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Sunday, July 24, and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>NORFOLK: at all.'</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   In a step toward consumer protection, he promised the federal
government would survey success rates of all U.S. in vitro clinics
and make the results public.
   Dr. Richard Marrs, director of the in vitro center at Los
Angeles' Hospital of the Good Samaritan, testified that even though
regulation of reproductive medicine is a sensitive issue, ``the
procedures performed are potentially dangerous without standard
licensing of the facilities and personnel.''
   Government involvement is not something that medicine normally
seeks. But Howard Jones, too, chastised Washington for staying away
from infertility research.
   ``The National Institutes of Health have never provided any
funds for in vitro fertilization or its offshoots (such as transfer
of egg and sperm directly to the Fallopian tubes, and embryo
freezing for later implant) because of pressures which the
politicians are not willing to buck,'' he said.
   Federal regulations require that a special Ethics Advisory Board
approve government-funded in vitro research, but since 1980 no
Secretary of Health and Human Services has appointed the board.
   A de facto moratorium has resulted, and Mrs. de Miranda, who
says federal funding would ensure better-controlled research,
blames it on ``right-to-lifers'' within and without the government.
   For some, ethical difficulties arise as soon as embryos are
created, the central part of the in vitro process and of research
to improve the technique.
   ``I think it's just a straight-out fear of touching upon the
whole issue of abortion,'' asserted Arthur L. Caplan, director of
the University of Minnesota's Center for Biomedical Ethics.
   The Vatican, in its 1987 ``Instruction on Respect for Human
Life,'' recognized ``no moral distinction'' between embryos at the
moment of conception and fetuses and fully developed humans; they
must be protected equally. Yet many physicians and ethicists do
make distinctions and consider medical research using embryos to be
justifiable.
   Regardless of the controversy, Caplan argues, the government has
an obligation not to evade an issue that affects so many Americans.
``It just shows a culpable lack of leadership.''
   At a congressional hearing earlier this month, Rep. Ted Weiss,
D-N.Y., sought to find out why the Health and Human Services
Department has declined to appoint the required ethics board.
   For years, the agency fended off the question.
   A 1986 memo by an HHS staff member to Dr. Robert Windom,
assistant secretary for health, suggested Windom could reply to the
American Association for the Advancement of Science's call for an
ethics board by sending a letter that was ``warm, but
noncommittal.'' The memo said the National Institutes of Health saw
``advantages in proceeding as we have, avoiding cost and
controversy associated with a permanent board.''
   Finally, facing the Weiss panel this July 14, the department was
ready to respond more fully. Just two days earlier, Windom
testified, HHS Secretary Otis Bowen had agreed to re-establish the
board. First, however, the board's ``charter'' must be re-defined
and the new scope and purpose published in the Federal Register,
followed by a 60-day public comment period. The Reagan
administration could be out of office by then.
   ``They've timed it obviously so they can be free of
controversy,'' Weiss said in a telephone interview.
   Nor are the issues of right and wrong simple in this uncharted
realm.
   In the Jones Institute's labs, among others, researchers are
trying to find a way to help in those cases in which a husband does
not produce the millions of sperm needed for natural fertilization.
With micro-injection, directly into the egg, only one sperm would
be needed.
   A purely humanitarian avenue of research to which no one could
object?
   Ethicists wonder.
   Which one sperm? Will it produce a boy or a girl? Who chooses?
Who's responsible if the baby is abnormal?
   For another question, the response is clearer: Why have couples
continued to pursue in vitro for a decade, despite its
uncertainties?
   The answer is in a portrait on the wall in Howard Jones' office,
showing twinkly-eyed twin girls who'll be 3 next month: Heather and
Ashley Smith.
   The day the Jones Institute opened, Sarah Smith was at the door,
the first to sign up for in vitro. ``I'd had several operations to
correct problems,'' she explained. ``You just have a drive to have
a child.''
   Seven failures later, however, she'd given up. She and her
husband, Robert, had been ``saving every penny'' for years for the
procedures; she was 38 and emotionally spent.
   ``When it didn't work,'' she said, ``it was just like a death
had occurred.''
   Still, Robert asked her to make one last try.
   A month after the implant, the phone call from the clinic
finally came. It was Christmastime _ and Mrs. Smith's present was
two tiny heartbeats.
   She caught her breath, then shouted, then wept. At last, it was
time for the announcement she'd ached to make.
   ``I asked my mother, `Do you still believe in miracles?' She
just looked at me,'' Mrs. Smith recalled.
   ``I said, `I'm going to have a baby.'''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Sunday, July 24</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0258 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1526EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>s a BC-InVitro-WhyInfertile Adv24   07-19 0219</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-In Vitro-Why Infertile, Adv 24,0226</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv24</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Sunday, July 24, and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>What Causes Infertility?</HEAD>
<HEAD>With BC-In Vitro Decade</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By The Associated Press</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   ``I must have done something wrong to deserve this.''
   That diary entry from an infertility patient, reported by a
Washington, D.C., psychologist, hints at the fragile state of mind
of many unable to reproduce, but doctors say there are
well-documented physical reasons for the condition.
   Infertility is defined as the inability of a couple to conceive
after 12 months of trying without contraception.
   Among women, the cause may be a hormonal disturbance impairing
ovulation, or endometriosis, a disease in which cells of the
uterine lining grow outside the uterus and disrupt the reproductive
cycle. Or it may be scarred or blocked Fallopian tubes, the normal
site of fertilization.
   Tubes are most often damaged by pelvic inflammatory disease;
studies have shown intrauterine devices can increase this risk. In
women, fertility decreases markedly after age 35.
   Male infertility usually results from abnormal or insufficient
numbers of sperm. Researchers cite such factors as environmental
hazards, drug abuse, cancer and testicular blood vessel problems.
   In 20 percent of cases of infertility, sexually transmitted
diseases, often treatable, are blamed.
   In up to 20 percent more, no clinically demonstrable cause is
ever found.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Sunday, July 24</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0259 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1527EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>s i BC-InVitro-LouiseBrown Adv24   07-19 0424</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-In Vitro-Louise Brown, Adv 24,0437</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv24</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Sunday, July 24, and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>At 10, First Test-Tube Baby Is Typical Schoolgirl</HEAD>
<HEAD>With BC-In Vitro Decade</HEAD>
<NOTE>With LaserPhoto</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By KIERAN DALY</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>BRISTOL, England (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   With shoulder-length blonde hair, blue
eyes and chubby cheeks, the world's first ``test-tube baby'' is
growing up, in her own words, ``just like all the girls at school.''
   Louise Joy Brown approaches her 10th birthday with a knack for
writing stories and poems and getting into trouble for playing
outdoors too late.
   Louise's birth in Oldham, England, on July 25, 1978, was hailed
as a medical breakthrough on the order of the first heart
transplant. As the first human conceived outside the womb, she gave
hope to millions of childless couples.
   Now Louise has a sister, 6-year-old Natalie, also conceived
through in vitro fertilization, and sees nothing special about
test-tube babies.
   The sisters and their parents, truck driver John Brown, 47, and
his wife, Lesley, 40, live in a modest, two-story house in
Whitchurch, a suburb of this bustling western England seaport.
   Louise attends a neighborhood school, Wansdyke Primary, and
belongs to the local Brownie troop.
   ``I just like to play, and I like doing English,'' she said,
proudly displaying stories and poems she had written.
   ``She is a very bright child, and if she can just learn to
concentrate and work a bit harder, then she can do very well for
herself,'' her father said.
   ``She's a monkey,'' Mrs. Brown said, ``but even so, she could be
really talented at whatever she does.''
   A doting father, Brown says he gets annoyed when Louise fails to
return home on time from playing outdoors.
   ``I told her that if she was late again, she would have to write
out 500 times `I must not be late,''' he said. ``But she is so full
of life and so friendly that it doesn't make any difference.
   ``I was worried that she might grow up a spoilt brat,'' he added.
   The Browns volunteered for the then-pioneering in vitro
treatment after failing to produce children in nine years of
marriage.
   Mrs. Brown's infertility resulted from a Fallopian tube
blockage. Her husband has another daughter, Sharon, 27, by a
previous marriage.
   Gynecologist Patrick Steptoe and physiologist Robert Edwards
spent a decade developing the procedure that made Louise's life
possible.
   Brown said it was sad that Steptoe, who died in March, couldn't
share in Louise's 10th birthday celebrations.
   ``But Louise is a sort of tribute to him,'' he said.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Sunday, July 24</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0260 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1528EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>s i BC-InVitro-World Adv24   07-19 0960</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-In Vitro-World, Adv 24,0986</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv24</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Sunday, July 24, and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>Test-Tube Babies Now Global Phenomenon</HEAD>
<HEAD>With BC-In Vitro Decade</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By ROBERT GLASS</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>LONDON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Since the world's first ``test-tube baby'' was
born in England 10 years ago, the medical technique that made her
life possible has spread around the world and spawned an array of
treatments to help childless couples.
   ``It's been astonishing. ... The ideas are coming from
everywhere,'' said physiologist Robert Edwards, who with the late
gynecologist Patrick Steptoe pioneered the technique known as in
vitro fertilization.
   ``There have been some amazing advances,'' especially in
unlocking some of the mysteries of early human growth and
hereditary diseases, Edwards said.
   Originally developed as a treatment for women with blocked
Fallopian tubes, in vitro fertilization has produced a range of
techniques such as embryo freezing, womb-leasing and egg donation
to treat infertility in both men and women.
   Virtually every industrialized country has an established in
vitro program, and many developing countries, such as China, India
and Egypt, have entered the field.
   Because few countries keep records of in vitro births, no
precise estimate exists of their number worldwide.
   However, a survey by AP bureaus indicated at least 10,000
test-tube babies have been born since the first, Louise Joy Brown,
on July 25, 1978.
   Britain, Australia, France, the United States, West Germany,
Belgium and Austria account for the majority of test-tube babies
worldwide.
   But fledgling programs also have been set up in Asia, the Middle
East and Latin America, often in defiance of religious and economic
objections.
   In the conservative Islamic nations of the Middle East, for
example, theologians initially balked at in vitro because of the
Koran's teaching against Western-style adoption procedures and
birth outside marriage. But clinics have sprung up in Saudi Arabia
and Egypt, mainly catering to the wealthy, and two clinics are
expected to open soon in Bahrain.
   Italy, meanwhile, has established a flourishing test-tube baby
program despite the Roman Catholic Church's objections to
artificial reproduction.
   China, while imposing a strict one-child-per-family regime to
control its population of more than 1 billion, announced the birth
of its first test-tube baby this year. India's first test-tube baby
was born two years ago.
   In vitro researchers say assisted conceptions produce a
statistically negligible addition to the population, and Edwards
says those who criticize populous countries for promoting new
childbirth methods ``should re-analyze their own view of life.''
   ``A Chinese woman has the same urge to have children as a
British woman,'' he said. ``You can't just set aside a group of
patients and leave them to suffer in silence.''
   Despite the proliferation of clinics, the Steptoe-Edwards
technique remains a costly, hit-and-miss proposition available to
only about 5 percent of childless couples.
   ``Nearly 10 years after the first baby was born as a result of
in vitro fertilization, this treatment is still largely
unsuccessful,'' said a report in the June 25 issue of the British
Medical Journal.
   It said the latest figures show that in Britain only 11 percent
of women got pregnant and 9 percent had a live baby after a single
cycle of treatment, and other countries with advanced programs had
similar success rates.
   The treatment has brought ``an awful lot of joy and happiness
for a lot of people, but also a lot of disappointment,'' said Dr.
Peter Brinsden, deputy director of the Fertility and In Vitro
Fertilization Unit at London's Humana Hospital, Wellington.
   Eventually, he expects the success rate ``to creep up to 20 to
30 percent,'' but noted, ``It's a long way down the road.''
   Brinsden and his colleagues are among world leaders in the
latest in vitro spinoff known as gamete intrafallopian transfer, or
GIFT, in which doctors transfer egg and sperm directly into the
Fallopian tube for fertilization in the womb.
   The Humana unit has reported a 31.2 percent success rate with
GIFT, but it has the drawback of being available only to women with
at least one unblocked Fallopian tube, the normal site of
conception.
   Although Edwards said his clinic at Bourn Hall, near Cambridge,
has a much higher pregnancy rate than average, he acknowledged that
the biggest in vitro advances have been in research into hereditary
diseases, rather than improving the technique's success rate.
   Under the Steptoe-Edwards technique, ova are removed from the
mother, mixed with the prospective father's sperm in a laboratory
dish and reimplanted in the mother's uterus.
   To increase the chances of pregnancy, doctors now routinely use
drugs to stimulate ovulation and fertilize and implant three or
four embryos at a time, resulting in a high incidence of multiple
births.
   Australia, which began in vitro research as far back as 1971 and
has produced an estimated 2,000 babies, has pioneered the storing
of frozen embryos in liquid nitrogen.
   The procedure, which saves embryos for later use if the first
attempt at pregnancy fails, has proved highly controversial.
   In 1983, a quandary developed over what came to be known as the
world's first ``test-tube orphans'' _ embryos left in Australian
cold storage after their American parents died in a plane crash.
The embryos were offered to a childless couple last December, but
it is not known whether they were ever used.
   An estimated 10,000 frozen embryos are now stockpiled around the
world _ 3,000 in France, 1,000 in Britain and most of the others in
Australia, raising concerns over their fate should their parents
die or decide not to claim them.
   Australia, France, West Germany, Sweden, Italy and Spain have
all taken steps to regulate in vitro. But the most comprehensive
nationwide controls are expected to emerge in Britain, where the
government has proposed legislation covering the entire field of
fertility treatment and embryo research.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Sunday, July 24</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0261 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1412EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>s e BC-BroadwayTix Adv23-24   07-19 0675</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Broadway Tix, Adv 23-24,0698</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv23</NOTE>
<NOTE>$Adv24</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Weekend Editions July 23-24 and thereafter</NOTE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Here are Broadway's new and current shows.
Ticket supply as of July 22 is indicated as Difficult or Available.
Credit card holders can order tickets by phone or by calling
Telecharge, Teletron or Ticketron.
   Telecharge's number is 212-239-6200 unless otherwise indicated.
Teletron's umber is 212-246-0102. Ticketron is 212-399-4444.
   For 24-hour information on theater, dance and music
performances, call the Theater Development Fund's New York City@On
Stage, 212-587-1111.
   When calling theaters directly, use New York area code 212.
Advance inquiries should be made, as ticket availability is subject
to change.
   _ ``A Chorus Line,'' the longest-running musical in Broadway
history, is about the hard life and struggles of chorus-line
members. Shubert, 239-6200, same number as Telecharge. Ticketron.
vailable.
   _ ``Anything Goes,'' a revival by the Lincoln Center Theater of
the 1934 Cole Porter musical. Vivian Beaumont, 239-6200, same
number as Telecharge. Ticketron. Difficult.
   _ ``Broadway Bound,'' Joan Rivers stars in Neil Simon's
autobiographical comedy about two struggling young writers.
Broadhurst, 239-6200, same number as Telecharge. Ticketron.
Available.
   _ ``Burn This,'' a contemporary romantic comedy by Lanford
Wilson, now starring Eric Roberts. Plymouth, 239-6200, same number
as Telecharge. Ticketron. Available.
   _ ``Cats,'' musical based on T.S. Eliot's cat poems, music by
Andrew Lloyd Webber of ``Evita'' fame. Winter Garden, 239-6200,
same number as Telecharge. Ticketron. Available.
   _ ``Checkmates,'' a new comedy by Ron Milner about contrasting
couples and starring Paul Winfield, Ruby Dee, Denzel Washington and
Marsha Jackson. 46th Street, 221-1211. Now in previews, opens Aug.
4. Teletron. Available.
   _ ``42nd Street,'' hit remake of the 1930s movie-musical
classic. St. James, 398-0280. Teletron. Ticketron. Available.
   _ ``Into the Woods,'' a Stephen Sondheim musical about several
fairy tale characters and what takes place after ``happily ever
after.'' Martin Beck, 246-6363. Teletron. Ticketron. Available.
   _ ``Jackie Mason's The World According to Me,'' the popular
comedian in a return engagement of his one-man show. Brooks
Atkinson, 719-4099. Teletron. Available.
   _ ``Les Miserables,'' a lavish musical retelling of the epic
Victor Hugo novel. Broadway, 239-6200, same number as Telecharge.
Ticketron. Difficult.
   _ ``Linda Ronstadt: Canciones de mi Padre,'' the pop singer in
an evening of songs from Old Mexico. Minskoff, 869-0550. Teletron.
Limited engagement through July 30. Available.
   _ ``M. Butterfly,'' John Lithgow stars in a play by David Henry
Hwang about the love affair between a French diplomat and a Chinese
opera star. Winner of the 1988 Tony Award as best play. Eugene
O'Neill, 246-0220. Teletron. Ticketron. Available.
   _ ``Me and My Girl,'' Jim Dale stars in the 1930s English
musical hit about a cockney scamp making it big in high society.
Marquis, 382-0100. Teletron. Ticketron. Available.
   _ ``Oh! Calcutta!,'' long-running nudie musical that spoofs sex
and swinging and such. Edison, 302-2302. Available.
   _ ``Romance Romance,'' two one-act musicals about the vagaries
of love. Helen Hayes, 944-9450. Teletron. Available.
   _ ``Sarafina!,'' a South African musical about high school
students in a black township. Cort, 239-6200, same number as
Telecharge. Available.
   _ ``Speed-the-Plow,'' Joe Mantegna, Ron Silver and Madonna star
in David Mamet's new play about two Hollywood producers and their
office temp. Royale, 239-6277, a special Telecharge number.
Available.
   _ ``Starlight Express,'' an Andrew Lloyd Webber-Trevor Nunn
roller-skating extravaganza about a train race across the United
States. Gershwin, 586-6510. Teletron. Available.
   _ ``The O'Neill Plays,'' Jason Robards and Colleen Dewhurst star
in revivals of Eugene O'Neill's ``Long Day's Journey Into Night''
and ``Ah, Wilderness!'' The plays are performed in repertory. Check
theater for playing schedule. Neil Simon, 757-8646. Teletron.
Available.
   _ ``The Night of the Iguana,'' a revival of the Tennessee
Williams' drama starring Jane Alexander and Pamela Payton-Wright.
Circle in the Square, 239-6200, same number as Telecharge.
Available.
   _ ``The Phantom of the Opera,'' the lavish Andrew Lloyd Webber
musical about a deformed composer who haunts the Paris Opera House
and the young soprano he loves. Winner of the 1988 Tony Award as
best musical. Majestic, 239-6290, a special Telecharge number.
Difficult.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Weekend Editions, July 23-24</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0262 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1426EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a e BC-WKD--Angell Adv29-31-1stld-Writethru b0873 07-19 0934</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-WKD--Angell, Adv 29-31-1st ld-Writethru, b0873,0955</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv29</NOTE>
<NOTE>$Adv30</NOTE>
<NOTE>$Adv31</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Weekend Editions, July 29-31 and Thereafter</NOTE>
<NOTE>Eds: SUBS 3rd graf to CORRECT typo, correcting to temperamental.
^AP WEEKEND ENTERTAINMENT AND ARTS</NOTE>
<HEAD>Books and Authors: A Game to Be Savored</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By HILLEL ITALIE</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   From Ernest Thayer's famous poem, ``Casey at the
Bat,'' to James Thurber's short story, ``You Could Look It Up,''
baseball has been literature's favorite sport.
   That tradition continues with Roger Angell's ``Season Ticket''
(Houghton Mifflin Co., 18.95), the fourth book the fiction editor
at the New Yorker magazine has written about the summer game.
   Although he writes about drugs and strikes, temperamental owners
and million-dollar salaries, Angell believes the real story is
still on the playing field. And he approvingly cites the saying of
the late Chicago White Sox owner Bill Veeck that baseball is a game
to savor.
   ``This insatiable thirst by the fans for what someone is really
like is OK,'' Angell said, ``but I think they sort of miss the
point for why they're there in the first place.''
   Angell has been writing about baseball since 1962. Each year, he
visits the spring training camps in Florida and Arizona, travels to
ballparks around the country during the regular season and attends
as many post-season games as possible. He is not just interested in
the games themselves but how they are played.
   ``The past few years I've been asking how they catch, how they
pitch,'' he said in an interview. ``The players, once they know
you're interested in what they're doing, you can't shut them up.''
   ``Season Ticket'' compiles articles starting with the 1983
season through the summer of 1987, when Angell describes a visit to
baseball's Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, N.Y. Whether writing about
the 1986 World Series or discussing the intricacies of how catchers
field their position, Angell is continually surprised at how much
there is to learn about baseball.
   ``I'm just beginning to understand. We all go through this. It's
very easy for fans to think that they know the game,'' he said.
``Listen to (New York Mets announcer) Tim McCarver. This is a guy
who's been playing the game all his life and everytime I listen I
learn something new.''
   In the preface of ``Season Ticket,'' Angell writes that baseball
is a game that can never be fully understood:
   ``I will always be an amateur of baseball, but I no longer feel
like an outsider; none of the old pros I talked to ... gave me the
impression that he had subdued the game, either. We are baffled but
still learning, and we keep coming back for more.''
   Angell was born in 1920. His mother, Katherine, was an editor at
the New Yorker for many years. His stepfather was E.B. White.
   ``He (White) suffered writing but made it look easy,'' Angell
said. ``He taught me how difficult it is to write.''
   Although he admires the spare, clean prose that was White's
trademark, Angell changes his style when writing about baseball.
   ``I think that I've developed a habit of rather long sentences
with parentheses which I don't use in other writing,'' he said.
``You use run-on sentences like the flavor of the run-on feeling in
the ballgame.''
   Angell believes the pace of a baseball game makes it easier to
write about. ``Baseball is linear. One thing happens, then
something else happens,'' he said. ``You can take notes. You can go
back and recreate a game and you can almost always explain why
something happened.
   ``You can't do that with basketball or hockey _ they move too
fast.''
   As someone who became a fan when Babe Ruth was in his prime,
Angell has seen many changes: night games, artificial turf, the
designated hitter. He has lost none of his enthusiasm.
   ``The game itself has hardly changed at all in our lifetime. The
leagues are bigger, the players are better paid but it has the same
feel. It's a real part of summer.''
   Like many fans, Angell has imagined himself playing in the major
leagues. He was a pitcher in high school and use to dream about
striking out the side. He remembers when his fantasy stopped.
   ``At some point in my upper 30s or early 40s, I was seeing a
psychiatrist and I came in with a dream,'' Angell recalled. ``I
dreamed that there were some bushes and shrubbery and there was a
gravestone with my name and my birthday on it and the year I was in.
   ``I took this dream to my shrink with some trepidation and he
asked how I felt and I said I felt sort of sad. He asked me what
the gravestone reminded me of and I said it reminds of those stones
out in center field in Yankee Stadium.
   ``Then I realized it meant the end of my baseball dreams.''
   In a chapter discussing the drug problems that have tarnished
baseball's image in recent years, Angell warns against expecting
too much of the players:
   ``I think a great many of us have begun to see how deeply we
want baseball players and other athletes to be better than we are.
We may wish this now more than ever before, because other heroes _
in politics, in our daily lives _ seem to be in short supply.''
   Angell never worries about expecting too much from the game
itself.
   ``The enthusiasm I have for baseball is real,'' he said. ``My
appreciation has increased with the knowledge. I've noticed a lot
of players feel this way too.''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Weekend Editions, July 29-31</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0263 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0041EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a e BC-WKD--FilmReview Adv00   07-19 0854</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-WKD--Film Review, Adv 00,0887</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv00</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Anytime</NOTE>
<HEAD>AP WEEKEND ENTERTAINMENT AND ARTS</HEAD>
<HEAD>At The Movies: ``Short Circuit 2,'' ``A Summer Story''</HEAD>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
<HEAD>``Short Circuit 2''</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   
   In a summer that delivered an army of dwarfs and an extremely
charming rabbit to movie theaters, one might wonder whether a
talking robot is a little much.
   No way! ``Short Circuit 2,'' a sequel to the original of a few
seasons back, is a sweet surprise package that will charm your
socks off.
   Its star is unquestionably a robot, but never has a hunk of
metal been quite so adorable.
   If you remember the first, ``Short Circuit,'' the creature
dubbed ``Number Five'' was invented as a tool of war. But the robot
was struck by lightning, reprogrammed itself and escaped from the
military.
   ``Number Five is alive!'' said promos for the first movie.
   Now, two years later, the robot has taken a human name _ Johnny
Five _ and his adventurous spirit craves ``input,'' information on
the world around him.
   Meanwhile, his inventor, Ben Jahrvi, an Indian who speaks
Malaprop, has fallen on hard times. Fired from the military, the
inventor, played by Fisher Stevens, has taken to selling miniature
Johnny Fives on streetcorners. A department store buyer falls in
love with the toys, orders 1,000 of them and the plot is off and
running.
   When Johnny Five is shipped to the big city to help with toy
production, the country-bred robot's circuits get overloaded with
``input.'' Adventures abound. Johnny Five gets involved with street
hoodlums and bank robbers and becomes the intermediary in a love
affair. He gets mugged, hugged and spray painted with graffiti. And
he tries on an array of colorful outfits seeking his own fashion
image.
   When he's pushed out the window of a 34-story skyscraper, Johnny
Five has a magical way out. After all, this is a fairy tale. The
gleaming backdrop, by the way, is Toronto.
   In various action scenes, Johny Five flies, swings from a crane,
and dizzily spins two villains who intrude upon the toy factory.
   Johnny Five is supported by some able human actors. In addition
to Stevens as the addled Jahrvi, there's Michael McKean as a
small-time hustler whose baser instincts are reformed by Johnny
Five's friendship. The always amusing Jack Weston is a sneaky
villain named Oscar.
   Kenneth Johnson's direction of the script by S.S. Wilson and
Brent Maddock keeps things moving at a breathtaking pace and
focuses always on the man of the hour _ our iron-clad Superman.
   ``Short Circuit 2'' is rated PG , presumably for some fairly
mild language and violence (to a robot?). Take the kids by all
means.
   _^By Linda Deutsch, Associated Press Writer.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
<HEAD>``A Summer Story''</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   
   ``A Summer Story'' is a sad, beautiful romance of human choices
and regrets, and of how love sometimes fails to overcome
differences between people.
   Set in the gorgeous Devon countryside just after the turn of the
century, the film focuses on upper-class Londoner Frank Ashton
(James Wilby), who is spending a holiday trekking through the moors
when he twists his ankle.
   While recovering, he rents a room in a farmhouse, where he soon
falls in love with the incredibly pretty Megan, a farm girl
portrayed by film newcomer Imogen Stubbs of the Royal Shakespeare
Company.
   Ashton's presence is resented by farm owner Mrs. Narracombe
(Susannah York) and by her son, Joe (Jerome Flynn), who long has
hoped to marry Megan.
   After a few idyllic and clandestine midnight meetings, the young
lovers must part, although Ashton promises to return to fetch Megan.
   The outcome of this romance is influenced by the social class
boundaries so rigid in England before World War I. But the choices
Ashton faces also deal with timeless issues of commitment,
responsibility and free will.
   Directed by Piers Haggard, ``A Summer Story'' is being shown in
theaters only in Los Angeles, New York and perhaps up to 50 other
big cities. It is a quiet film unlikely to attract the mass
audience drawn by blockbusters and adventure movies.
   But it belongs to a too often overlooked class of films that
deal with real people and genuine human emotions _ films that touch
the heart and the brain rather than blast the eardrums.
   Penelope Mortimer's screenplay is based on ``The Apple Tree,'' a
classic romance story written in 1916 by John Galsworthy, the
British author best known for his ``Forsyte Saga'' trilogy.
   ``A Summer Story,'' released by Atlantic Entertainment Group,
was produced by Danton Rissner. It is rated PG-13, with adult
themes and some sex and nudity. Running time: 95 minutes.
   _^By Lee Siegel, Associated Press Writer.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   
   Motion Picture Association of America rating definitions:
   G _ General audiences. All ages admitted.
   PG _ Parental guidance suggested. Some material may not be
suitable for children.
   PG-13 _ Special parental guidance strongly suggested for
children under 13. Some material may be inappropriate for young
children.
   R _ Restricted. Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult
guardian.
   X _ No one under 17 admitted. Some states may have higher age
restrictions.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Release Anytime</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0264 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0043EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a e BC-WKD--HomeVideo Adv00   07-19 0895</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-WKD--Home Video, Adv 00,0936</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv00</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Anytime</NOTE>
<HEAD>AP WEEKEND ENTERTAINMENT AND ARTS</HEAD>
<HEAD>Video View: Home Video News and Reviews</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By DOLORES BARCLAY</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Arts Editor</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   After earning close to $33 million last year
when it was re-released to movie houses, Walt Disney's
``Cinderella'' is bibbidy bobbidi booing its way to home screens in
the fall.
   The $26.99 videocassette will join other Disney classics for
small-screen consumption, including ``The Wind in the Willows,''
``Mary Poppins'' and ``Dumbo.''
   Disney Home Video hopes the beautifully animated film will soar
past sales figures for its best-selling ``Lady and the Tramp''
video, which has sold 3.2 million copies.
   Released in 1950, the 75-minute feature was nominated for two
Academy Awards, including best song for ``Bibbidy Bobbidi Boo.''
   Also out this fall from Orion Home Video is a series of
contemporary foreign film classics, including Claude Berri's
award-winning ``Jean de Florette,'' which won four British
``Oscars'' including best film, and its sequel ``Manon of the
Spring.''
   And if you want to know what videos certain celebrities like to
watch, V magazine has polled a few and provides these nuggets in
its July issue:
   _ Robin Williams, ``Dr. Strangelove or How I Learned to Stop
Worrying and Love the Bomb.''
   _ Dudley Moore, ``It's a Wonderful Life.''
   _ Billy Crystal, ``The Godfather.''
   _ Patti Labelle, ``Imitation of Life.''
   _ Chuck Norris, anything starring John Wayne.
   _ Christopher Walken, ``Spartacus.''
   Films reviewed this week: ``Full Metal Jacket'' and ``Forever,
Lulu.''
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
<HEAD>``Full Metal Jacket''@ (Warner Home Video; VHS-Beta, $89.95;</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   Rated R)
   
   Stanley Kubrick was at a disadvantage when ``Full Metal Jacket''
hit the nation's movie screens last summer. Oliver Stone's
``Platoon'' had already nabbed Academy Awards, including best
picture, and helped galvanize a nation around the haunting
reminders of a terrifying time.
   Other Vietnam War movies also had floated by: Francis Coppola's
``Gardens of Stone,'' Lionel Chetwynd's ``The Hanoi Hilton'' and
John Irvin's ``Hamburger Hill.''
   Still, Kubrick's electrifying excursion into military mania
managed to snare its share of the moviegoing audience. In fact,
film buffs had long awaited Kubrick's next work, seven years after
``The Shining,'' and were curious to see how he would treat the
madness of Vietnam after depicting modern insanities in ``Paths of
Glory,'' ``2001: A Space Odyssey'' and ``Dr. Strangelove, Or How I
Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb.''
   Based on Gustav Hasford's gripping novel, ``The Short Timers,''
Kubrick's work actually is two movies with the same characters: The
first part, and by far the best, takes place at Parris Island,
S.C., where recruits are stripped of their humanity to become
killing machines; the second part shifts to Vietnam, where the
marines fight the Tet offensive.
   We see the best of Kubrick's talents in ``Full Metal Jacket'' _
the title refers to the casings on the bullets _ in the slick
editing and direction of Gunnery Sgt. Hartman working the last
nerves of his boys. ``You will be ready to eat your own guts and
ask for seconds,'' he tells them.
   Lee Ermey, a former marine drill instructor himself, is
outstanding as Hartman and Vincent D'Onofrio as his major victim,
dubbed Pvt. Gomer Pyle by the sergeant, also puts in an excellent
performance.
   Kubrick seals each training scene with a tension that zooms us
to the next.
   But when the action shifts to Vietnam all that tension is lost,
and one of the worst battles of the war becomes a whimper. Part of
the problem is that the movie was shot in England rather than
Southeast Asia, which would have lent a much-needed authenticity.
   Still, Kubrick's effort is worthy of home viewing.
   _^By Dolores Barclay, AP Arts Editor.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
<HEAD>``Forever, Lulu'' (RCA@Columbia Home Video, VHS-Beta, $79.95,</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   Rated R)
   
   ``Forever, Lulu'' has everything: a rock star (Deborah Harry), a
foreign film star (Hanna Schygulla), Dr. Ruth Westheimer, an S&M
club, Paul Newman's Own salad dressing, Manhattan, organized crime
and mystery.
   Unfortunately, though, when all those elements come together
what's created is not much more than an awkward, sloppy
misadventure.
   Amos Kollek's ``Forever, Lulu'' recalls the far better
``Desperately Seeking Susan,'' with its rock star, hapless heroine
and a mystery that turns on her getting someone else's coat. But
even the acclaimed Schygulla seems uncomfortable in this role.
   Schygulla plays Elaine, an unrecognized writer who's been
mugged, fired, dropped by her agent and is desperate enough to
consider killing herself. At one point her agent tells her,
``You'll always be on your own.'' She replies, ``So's Clint
Eastwood.'' Much of the movie makes as much sense.
   Because of the coat, Elaine finds herself trailing an elusive
woman called Lulu (Harry), wanders into a gangsters' hideaway,
witnesses a shootout and walks out with their loot. Of course, she
becomes a hero and a star.
   Annie Golden is a bright spot as Elaine's oddball friend.
   _^By Mary MacVean, Associated Press Writer.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   Motion Picture Association of America rating definitions:
   G _ General audiences. All ages admitted.
   PG _ Parental guidance suggested. Some material may not be
suitable for children.
   PG-13 _ Special parental guidance strongly suggested for
children under 13. Some material may be inappropriate for young
children.
   R _ Restricted. Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult
guardian.
   X _ No one under 17 admitted. Some states may have higher age
restrictions.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Release Anytime</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0265 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0630EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a e BC-WKD--RecordReviews Adv00   07-19 0517</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-WKD--Record Reviews, Adv 00,0535</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv00</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Anytime</NOTE>
<HEAD>AP WEEKEND ENTERTAINMENT AND ARTS</HEAD>
<HEAD>In the Groove: Record Reviews</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By STEVEN WINE</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
<HEAD>``Scenes From the Southside'' (RCA) _ Bruce Hornsby and the</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   Range
   
   While ``Scenes From the Southside'' isn't the first music to
evoke the atmosphere of Appalachia, it may be the first to do it
with a piano rather than a mandolin, banjo or fiddle. But few
records have a stronger sense of a region than the second album
from Bruce Hornsby and the Range.
   Hornsby pleads for preservation of the environment on ``Look Out
Any Window,'' sings about a small-town scandal on ``The Valley
Road'' and jabs fundamentalist preachers common to the region on
``Jacob's Ladder'' and ``Defenders of the Flag.'' Hornsby and his
brother and writing partner, John Hornsby, show a novelist's eye
for detail in describing the area where they were raised.
   Hornsby's piano is more dominant than on the band's first album,
the hit ``The Way It Is.'' Hornsby, who gives himself plenty of
time for solos on the 48-minute record, has a jazzy sense of
phrasing that recalls Keith Jarrett, but he plays with a Jerry Lee
Lewis-like velocity. It's a unique blend, and one to be embraced by
listeners weary of synthesizers.
   The record could use more diversity in tempo and
instrumentation; for example, Hornsby makes little use of his skill
on the accordian. Such quibbles aside, ``Scenes From the
Southside'' is an album delivered with considerable honesty and
heart.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
<HEAD>``Diesel and Dust'' (Columbia) _ Midnight Oil</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   
   If Mike Dukakis would adopt ``Dream World'' from Midnight Oil's
new album as his campaign theme, he'd beat the Republicans in a
landslide. The song is a sure vote-getter that sounds celebratory
for Democrats, ominous for the GOP.
   ``Your dream world is just about to end,'' Midnight Oil lead
singer Peter Garrett snarls above chiming guitars that provide the
wake-up call. The song, written with the Reagan revolution in mind,
is killer rock 'n' roll _ hook-filled, dance-inducing and
thought-provoking all at once.
   Happily, the rest of ``Diesel and Dust'' is of the same caliber
as ``Dream World,'' and the album could allow Midnight Oil a break
into the American market. Until now, the veteran Australian
quintet's socially conscious music hasn't found much of an audience
in the United States.
   But Midnight Oil deserves to be heard. Its sound reflects
five-star bands from other eras, including the Clash and the Byrds.
While Garrett sounds like a world-weary Joe Strummer, bassist Peter
Gifford and guitarists Jim Moginie and Martin Rotsey play with both
finesse and fire to help create music that is catchy and yet
thundering. The band must be great live.
   And its message is strong. Besides the call to activism on
``Dream World,'' Garrett sings about the arms race on ``Put Down
That Weapon'' and addresses land rights on ``Beds Are Burning.''
   Social concerns have become a more prominent part of pop music
in recent years, so there should be room on the charts for Midnight
Oil.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Release Anytime</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0266 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0630EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a e BC-WKD--Fisher Adv29-31   07-19 0781</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-WKD--Fisher, Adv 29-31,0802</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv29</NOTE>
<NOTE>$Adv30</NOTE>
<NOTE>$Adv31</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Weekend Editions, July 29-31 and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>AP WEEKEND ENTERTAINMENT AND ARTS</HEAD>
<HEAD>Star Watch: Wisecracking Carrie Romps Again</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By BOB THOMAS</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>LOS ANGELES (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Already a film legend as Princess Leia in the
``Star Wars'' epics, Carrie Fisher amazed the literary world last
year by producing a book that not only won critical praise, but
placement on best-seller lists.
   ``Postcards From the Edge,'' now released in paperback, is a
novel about a film actress, Suzanne Vale, who enters a
rehabilitation clinic to break her addiction to drugs and alcohol.
Since Carrie Fisher is a film actress who almost overdosed in 1985
and underwent 30 days of treatment at a Century City detoxification
center, interviewers ask whether the book is based on her life.
   ``A lot of books are partly autobiographical in nature,'' she
replies. ``If you don't write from what you know, then you're
writing science fiction. Which maybe I'll try, but then they'll say
I'm writing about `Star Wars.'
   ``The book is partly autobiographical. I did draw from certain
situations in my life, but the book isn't (autobiographical).
   ``I think it makes people more comfortable to think that it all
happened, that I kept copious notes. I've certainly done enough
movies, so there's my movie sequence. I was in a clinic. But I
couldn't have kept notes in that situation; it was too traumatic to
keep notes. You're barely there anyway. Most of the other
characters are really fiction. It's probably half and half.''
   Her next book?
   ``It's going to be about a girl who is interviewed about a book
that everybody says is autobiographical.'' Just kidding, as is her
custom.
   The new book is tentatively called ``Surrender the Pink.''
   She says the new book is totally fiction and concerns
``obsessive relationships, or weird love.'' She must deliver it
next March.
   With her newfound discipline, Fisher is likely to make the
deadline. She is now working in ``The 'Burbs'' with Tom Hanks and
Bruce Dern, and she takes her word processor to work with her. She
is also scheduled to adapt ``Postcards From the Edge'' for a film
by Mike Nichols. But the project has been shelved by the writers'
strike.
   The 31-year-old Fisher wisecracked her way through an interview
at the hilltop home paid for with her ``Star Wars'' earnings.
   She remarked that she came from ``a long line of short people
who are survivors.''
   Her parents are Debbie Reynolds and Eddie Fisher, stars of a
major scandal of the 1950s. Carrie was too young to remember the
headlined events when Fisher abandoned Reynolds for the love of
Elizabeth Taylor, who ultimately left him for Richard Burton.
   At 17, Carrie Fisher made her film debut in ``Shampoo,''
graphically propositioning Warren Beatty. She dropped out of high
school to appear in her mother's nightclub act. At 19, George Lucas
chose her to play Princess Leia in ``Star Wars.'' How did she land
the role?
   ``I always like to say that I was in Schwab's drugstore wearing
THAT hairstyle when Lucas walked in and said, `What other jerk
would look appropriate in space?'
   ``I just tested for it,'' she said. ``I read well with Harrison
(Ford). The dialogue was bizarre but I have a weird Pac-Man way of
talking that kind of charged through it. They were either going to
go for pretty or whatever it is that I have. Which is sort of
gritty.''
   ``Star Wars'' proved to be the biggest moneymaker up to its time
(1977) and Fisher appeared in the two sequels. What did the films
do for her?
   ``Well, they made me financially OK _ until I got business
managers. They made me a household word, like Ajax. Only I wasn't a
household word. Princess Leia was famous and I was sort of adjunct
to her. It's an associated fame, sort of. Once again.''
   Fisher grew up famous, because of her parents. But she found
nothing unusual about her upbringing, nor does she think it
contributed to her drug problem.
   ``What happens (in Hollywood) is that you don't see your parents
as much, but it's the same as having working parents,'' she
observed. ``So I had working parents, and there were divorces. But
that happens everywhere.
   ``(Drug problems) can happen anywhere, too. My brother, Todd,
had a similar background to me, and he was never a drinker or a
drugger. It gets a lot of publicity in Hollywood, and maybe it is
more part of this environment. But it's everywhere, though mostly
in cities. Who wants to take cocaine and sit around and watch the
crops fail?''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Weekend Editions, July 29-31</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0267 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0631EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a e BC-WKD--Cliburn Adv29-31   07-19 0959</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-WKD--Cliburn, Adv 29-31,0998</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv29</NOTE>
<NOTE>$Adv30</NOTE>
<NOTE>$Adv31</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Weekend Editions, July 29-31 and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>AP WEEKEND ENTERTAINMENT AND ARTS</HEAD>
<HEAD>The Artists: Van Cliburn Returns to the Concert Stage</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By MARY CAMPBELL</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   In April 1958, a quiet young Texan brought
classical music to the heart of America and captivated a nation by
winning the Tchaikovsky Competition in Moscow.
   Van Cliburn was the first American ever to win the coveted
prize, and he won by playing the explosive and romantic ``Piano
Concerto.''
   He stopped performing a decade ago to take an ``intermission''
from his hectic concert and recording schedule, and is now
returning to the concert stage.
   ``I love music passionately,'' the pianist said. ``It is my
life. But I think of the time necessary to make something ready for
the concert stage. It's a lonely procedure and a solitary life.
   ``A friend said I certainly move at a snail's pace,'' he said
with a laugh. ``I don't want to rush this thing. I do love my
audiences. Through the years it has been so heart-warming to hear
from people who remembered hearing me and want to hear me again.''
   Cliburn's first performance since Oct. 1, 1978, was last Dec. 8
at a White House dinner for Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev. Before
he left the White House, he promised conductors Mstislav
Rostropovich and Zubin Mehta that he would appear with the National
Symphony and the New York Philhamonic.
   He also received an award but did not play at a Carnegie Hall
concert in June which unveiled the 500,000th piano built in America
by Steinway.
   In September, he will play at the inauguration of the Dallas
Symphony's new hall. And he has been talking to RCA Records, which
is releasing his old records as compact discs, about recording
again.
   Cliburn stopped accepted future dates in 1977, intending to give
himself about a year's sabbatical.
   ``When I was young, I told some little friends, `I feel I will
work very hard in the first part of my life,'' he said. ``I want to
have an intermission. I want to take the intermission while I'm
young enough to enjoy it and get something out of it. I feel I will
work very hard the last part of my life.'''
   He began playing piano when he was 3 and made his orchestral
debut with the Houston Symphony when he was 12. The next year he
performed at Carnegie Hall, made his New York Philharmonic debut at
19 and went to the Soviet Union at 23.
   ``It has been playing, playing, playing,'' he said.
   Cliburn took his ``intermission'' when he did because both his
father and his manager, Sol Hurok, died in 1974.
   ``I didn't get to spend too much time with my father. Some
managers rearranged certain dates so I had a little more time with
him at the end. I wouldn't exchange that for anything. There are
certain things in life you never get back,'' he said.
   Cliburn received invitations to play but was enjoying his social
life too much, so he extended his holiday. Then the White House
called on Nov. 17, requesting that Cliburn play at the Gobachev
dinner.
   ``I was very flattered by the invitation. Then I thought what an
interesting and lovely experience it would be,'' he said. ``I had
been practicing. ... I was enjoying my work.''
   Cliburn had given up his long-time apartment across the street
from Carnegie Hall and bought a house in Fort Worth, Texas, moving
in with his mother, Rildia Bee Cliburn. She was his only piano
teacher until he went to the Juilliard School at 17.
   ``My mother is my chief critic,'' he said. ``After the White
House phone call came, I asked her, `Do you think I can do it?' She
said, `Well, I don't know. Let me hear you play a program tonight.'
She listened. She said, `I want to hear this again tomorrow night.'
I was practicing feverishly. The next night I played my little
program for her. She said, `I think you can go ahead and call and
accept.' She is critical; she makes little suggestions. She has a
great sense of style and drama.
   ``She thinks I've had a long enough intermission and I've got to
get back to the second half of my life.'' Vladimir Horowitz
recommended the same thing.
   In 1983, Cliburn went to a small party for Emil Gilels the last
time Gilels played in New York. ``I thought possibly he would give
me a lecture. Instead, he said, `I'm so proud of you for having the
strength to take time off and smell the flowers.' He said, `You'll
know when to start playing again. Never think about time.'
   ``When I was a child, my mother never wanted me to think about
how long I was going to practice. She said, `If you do, you're not
concentrating on what you're doing. When you go to the piano, only
think of accomplishing something. If you can do something in a
short amount of time, fine. Practice until it is what you want.'
   ``It was terribly providential for me having my teacher in the
house, ready to correct mistakes immediately,'' he said. ``Children
of parents who aren't trained go to a lesson and it takes another
lesson just to correct things. In my case it was already corrected
and I was on to other things.''
   Cliburn would like to perform in the Soviet Union next season _
Gorbachev had asked when he'd be visiting.
   ``I can not believe it has been 30 years since I was in
Moscow,'' he said. ``I feel younger today than I did then. I feel
so good.''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Weekend Editions, July 29-31</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0268 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0632EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a e BC-WKD--James Adv29-31   07-19 1007</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-WKD--James, Adv 29-31,1032</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv29</NOTE>
<NOTE>$Adv30</NOTE>
<NOTE>$Adv31</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Weekend Editions, July 29-31 and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>AP WEEKEND ENTERTAINMENT AND ARTS</HEAD>
<HEAD>Music Makers: The Punk-Funk King Has New LP and Label</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JOHN F. BONFATTI</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>AURORA, N.Y. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Rick James, the self-professed King of
punk-funk rock, calls his latest album ``Wonderful'' with good
reason.
   ``That's the way I feel since I've been off Motown,'' said
James, referring to the legendary recording label which released
the string of singles _ ``You and I,'' ``Super Freak I''
``Cold-Blooded'' _ that catapulted James to superstardom during the
past 10 years.
   The release of ``Wonderful'' last month on Warner Bros. Records
marks a new phase in his career. He said his fans will hear ``a joy
in it that I haven't had for years.''
   ``It's just a very happy album,'' said James, who is known for
his risque lyrics, throbbing dance rhythms and long curly hair.
   ``With so many years of unhappiness with Motown, so many of my
albums after `Street Songs,' which was my biggest album, were kind
of downhill as far as the ambiance and the joy because I really
wasn't feeling a lot,'' he said. ``On this album, I kind of got it
all back.''
   James has severed his 10-year relationship with Motown: ``They
just didn't allow me to have the freedom that I needed to really
make the kind of records and do the kinds of things in the industry
that I wanted to do.''
   Working at Motown, which produced such stars as the Jacksons,
the Supremes, Stevie Wonder, Smoky Robinson and the Miracles, the
Temptations and the Four Tops, was initially invigorating for James.
   Then the tension between the sexually graphic themes coursing
through much of his work and Motown's traditionally conservative
approach to pop music began getting to him.
   ``They never totally understood what I was trying to do, where I
was trying to come from with my music,'' he said. ``For the whole
10 years, it was a constant battle in me trying to acquaint them
with what I wanted to say and how I wanted to say it.''
   The parting was not amicable; Motown is suing James for not
fulfilling his contracts with them, and James is suing Motown,
claiming the company owes him money and never gave a proper
accounting of his royalties.
   Motown ``denies all of that 1,000 percent,'' said company
attorney Mark Gottridge. James denies the charges Motown has made
against him.
   ``They're trying to say I'm in violation of a contract, which
I'm not,'' said James, adding that he had finished and delivered
both his own final LP for Motown and a third LP by the group he
produces, the Mary Jane Girls.
   During the past three years, James has spent much of his time
producing both the artists in his stable _ the Mary Jane Girls, Val
Young and Process and the Doo-Rags _ and others, including comedian
Eddie Murphy and his successful single, ``Party All the Time.''
   He also says that during that time, he's been free of a cocaine
addiction that he feels was a serious threat to his life.
   ``There was a bad period in my life some years ago when I got
into a serious cocaine habit; $10,000 to $15,000 a week,'' said
James. ``I didn't really see it. My lawyers and my accountants and
friends really saw it before I did. They saw that my usage of coke
was getting to be a million-dollar-a-year habit. I didn't see it
until I went into rehab and I didn't understand it until I got
out.''
   James said he got caught up in living the ``bad boy'' persona he
had cultivated.
   ``There was a time where I was just trying to live the image
wholeheartedly; I wasn't thinking about the person, James
Johnson,'' he said. ``I mean, Rick James was just a man-made image,
the image I created. Just trying to live Rick James almost killed
me.'' He was born James A. Johnson, Jr. on Buffalo's rough East
Side 39 years ago.
   James, who retains the youthful swagger of his earlier years,
says his drug rehabilitation made him more patient and less angry.
   ``I was like the angry young man years ago,'' he said. ``It
wasn't anything specific. I was angry at the politics of the
country. I was angry about the poor people in Ethiopia. I was angry
at bigots and racism. I was angry that the Buffalo Bills were
losing. You name it and I'd be angry about it.''
   The Buffalo area remains home for James, who lived for several
years in Los Angeles.
   ``The West Coast is crazy; too crazy for me,'' he said. ``I live
here because my roots are here. It's very important for me to
maintain a strong relationship with my mother and my family and I
can't do that long distance. It gives me an anchor.''
   His house appears to be a modest white ranch from the outside,
with only the extra large parking lot and guard booth at the
driveway seeming out of character with the Aurora neighborhood, an
affluent suburb south of Buffalo.
   Inside, he has all the luxuries of a star: indoor swimming pool,
basement recording studio and a solarium filled with hand-carved
redwood furniture.
   With his impending re-emergence on the music scene, James is not
worried that people won't remember him because of his absence from
the charts. ``Wonderful'' is his first LP in almost two years.
   ``I've sold close to 30 million albums,'' he said. ``It's not
like 30 million people that bought your music are going to forget
about you. I've never really had worries about being forgotten;
I've had worries about losing myself in the interim.''
   However, with plans for a world tour during the last half of the
year, James said he is scared about his return to the limelight.
   ``I'm horrified,'' he said. ``It's a question of fear of the
unknown; of not knowing what (the reception) will be.''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Weekend Editions, July 29-31</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0269 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0633EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a e BC-WKD--Sanders Adv29-31   07-19 0807</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-WKD--Sanders, Adv 29-31,0833</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv29</NOTE>
<NOTE>$Adv30</NOTE>
<NOTE>$Adv31</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Weekend Editions, July 29-31 and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>AP WEEKEND ENTERTAINMENT AND ARTS</HEAD>
<HEAD>Nashville Sound: Brother-Sister Duo Is Newest Family Act</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JOE EDWARDS</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NASHVILLE, Tenn. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Sanders have swapped rowdy Alaskan
bars for more gentle settings to sing their songs of love.
   After fighting off grizzly bears and gold thieves in the land of
the midnight sun, the brother-sister duo came to Nashville with
their close-knit vocals and launched a country music recording
career.
   Vicki Sanders, 31, and Dale, 33, spent the past 10 years singing
in Alaska at night and often mining for gold by day with their
father, a retired geology teacher.
   ``It was very rewarding,'' Dale Sanders said. ``It was nice
being able to make people smile all the time.''
   Vicki Sanders gave a sample of their experiences:
   _ ``We played in Barrow in the far northern part. We were hired
with 13 Colombians who never went to sleep; they partied nonstop.
There were two buckets for the bathroom and a shower stall that
said `girls Monday-Wednesday-Friday' and `boys Tuesday-Thursday.' ''
   _ ``In Seward, a girl was beating a guy up. She picked up a
chair and threw it at him. He ran into the bathroom and hid. He
stepped out and she sucker- punched him.''
   _ ``A guy threatened to tie his wife to a tree, so she shot him
nine times with a .22 at their cabin. She got on a snow machine and
went for help.''
   The darkness and remoteness of Alaska seemed to affect the
residents, the Sanders said.
   ``In all those remote places where it's dark, people have a
tendency to get wild and kick up their heels,'' Vicki said. ``It
gets depressing.''
   ``You get a different breed of people,'' said Dale. ``Those who
don't like society go to those type places. It's kind of the end of
the road.''
   The two also had to contend with bears while mining along the
Alaska-Canada border.
   ``We were pretty heavily armed at the mine because they would
surprise you or you would surprise them,'' Dale said in an
interview. ``You'd be in a bind without a weapon. They destroyed
our camp a couple of times. One time they walked through a
camper-trailer by going in one end and tearing out the whole wall
and destroying the inside. They pushed a refrigerator through the
wall and made another hole to go out.''
   They mined from 1973 until the mid-1980s, always on the lookout
for thieves.
   ``One guy took a chain saw and stole the floor out of a cabin,''
Dale said.
   The two, both born and raised in Alaska, compared the mining
business to the entertainment field.
   ``Some years were good and some were not very good at all,''
Vicki said. ``I wouldn't recommend it for someone who needs
security. It's like the music industry. You can't count on
anything. You work your hardest and hope it works out at the end.''
   They recently signed a recording contract with Airborne Records,
a new independent label in Nashville. Steve Roberts, an Airborne
vice president, had heard them sing several years ago while he was
a concert promoter in Anchorage.
   ``One listen and I was sold on their music,'' Roberts recalled
about his first exposure to them. ``I decided then that if I ever
had a label, they would be on it.''
   Their first single record is ``You Fit Right Into My Heart.''
   Their sound is sure to draw comparisons to the Carpenters, a
brother-sister duo who had hits 15 years ago with ``For All We
Know,'' ``Superstar'' and ``Rainy Days & Mondays.''
   ``We listen to them,'' Vicki said. ``But our style of harmony
doesn't resemble theirs in any way, only that we are brother and
sister. We do have kind of a folk influence which they did also.''
   ``Our music is kind of on the sweet side but ours is not as
sweet as theirs. Ours is more country,'' Dale said. ``We've got a
new sound with a different approach. We don't sound like anyone
else. Our music is easy to listen to, positive, straight ahead.''
   The Sanders are the latest in a variety of family acts in
country music, joining Larry Gatlin and the Gatlin Brothers, the
Judds (mother and daughter), the Forester Sisters, the Whites
(father and daughters) and others.
   ``The blend you get when you put family together is going to be
closer than if you are not related,'' said Vicki, who has two other
brothers.
   ``And you make more concessions when working with family on the
road. You have disagreements but you forgive your brother or
sister. It's harder to forgive someone not related.''
   Said Dale, ``A lot of families grow up singing and just fall
into it.''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Weekend Editions, July 29-31</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0270 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0223EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f PM-BusinessHighlights 2Takes   07-19 0574</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Business Highlights, 2 Takes,0602</2ND_LINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Oil prices climbed in response to news of a
possible cease-fire in the Iran-Iraq war, posting their biggest
daily rise since April.
   The news Monday raised prospects that the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries would be able to calm its chronic
infighting, which has led to overproduction and lower prices.
   On the New York Mercantile Exchange, the August contract for
West Texas Intermediate, the benchmark crude oil, shot up 84 cents
a barrel to settle at $15.70 a barrel. That was the biggest rise
since one of $1.01 a barrel on April 11.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>RICHMOND, Va. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   More than 95 percent of A.H. Robins Co.'s
stockholders and Dalkon Shield claimants have approved a
reorganization plan that could end the company's nearly three-year
bankruptcy struggle.
   The plan would set up a nearly $2.5 billion trust fund to
satisfy claims by women who allege they were injured by using the
Dalkon Shield intrauterine birth-control device.
   It would also provide for a $3.2 billion buyout of the
122-year-old company by the American Home Products Corp.
   Robins announced official vote results on Monday.
</TEXT>
<BYLINE>By The Associated Press</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   Chase Manhattan Corp., J.P. Morgan & Co., Manufacturers Hanover
Corp. and Continental Illinois Corp. report that their
second-quarter earnings rebounded from heavy losses posted in the
same period of 1987.
   Chase Manhattan, the nation's second largest banking company,
said Monday it had an after-tax profit of $224 million, or $2.45 a
share, compared with a loss of $1.4 billion a year earlier.
   Morgan earned $228.7 million, or $1.23 a share, compared with a
loss of $586.4 million in 1987.
   Manufacturers Hanover, the nation's sixth largest banking
company, earned $403.1 million, or $7.93 per share, in the second
quarter, compared with a $1.37 billion loss a year earlier.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   International Business Machines Corp. has
announced steps to shrink its marketing and services headquarters
staffs under a $600 million streamlining program.
   IBM said Monday it would consolidate three organizations into
one, named US Marketing & Services, that will be run by a smaller
management team.
   IBM says the consolidations are expected to lead to the
retirement or resignation of 3,000 to 4,000 employees. In addition
to cutting costs, IBM says its streamlining is intended to bring
its marketing activities closer to customers.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Robert M. Bass Group has begun a sweetened, $1.9
billion tender offer for Macmillan Inc. days after winning a court
victory against the publisher's reorganization plan.
   The Texas-based Bass group said Monday it will pay $75-a-share a
share in cash for the Macmillan shares it does not already own.
Bass controls about 9.9 percent of the publisher's 25.9 million
outstanding common shares.
   In a letter outlining details of its offer to the Macmillan
board, the Bass group said it planned to keep Macmillan in one
piece and has no plans to dispose of any part of the company or
merge it with any other enterprise.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>LOS ANGELES (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The government is demanding $557 million in
additional taxes, plus interest, from Atlantic Richfield Co. for
windfall profits on Alaskan oil.
   Arco said Monday it would contest the tax assessment and was
prepared to go to court if the dispute can't be settled through
negotiations with the Internal Revenue Service.
   The cumulative interest on the tax claim could more than double
the amount the government is seeking, Arco said.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>MORE</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0271 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0225EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f PM-BusinessHighlights 1stAdd   07-19 0554</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Business Highlights, 1st Add,0580</2ND_LINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   GTE Corp., half-owner of the money-losing US
Sprint Communications Co., plans to slash its investment in the
long-distance company by selling a 30.1 percent interest to its
partner for about $600 million.
   United Telecommunications Inc., the Kansas City-based company
that has shared equal ownership of US Sprint, will increase its
ownership to 80.1 percent through the tentative deal, which would
close at the end of the year.
   In a related announcement Monday, Robert H. Snedaker, US
Sprint's 62-year-old president, said he would take early retirement
effective Aug. 15.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Texaco Inc.'s management says it has defeated a
shareholder proxy challenge from takeover strategist Carl Icahn by
58.6 percent to 41.4 percent, a substantially wider margin than
earlier thought.
   The results of the June proxy fight reported by the oil giant on
Monday showed there was no crucial ``swing vote'' that decided the
outcome, contradicting Icahn's claim of a close contest.
   Icahn, who owns 14.8 percent of Texaco's stock, had conceded
defeat after the annual shareholder meeting when it became clear
his effort to install himself and four associates on the company
board had been rejected.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The chairman of MGM-UA
Communications Co. has resigned, a week after controlling
sharholder Kirk Kerkorian announced he would split the movie and TV
company into two.
   Lee Rich will be replaced as chairman and chief executive by
Stephen D. Silbert, current president and chief operating officer,
the company announced Monday.
   No reason was given for Rich's departure.
   On July 11, the company said MGM, the former
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, would be spun off from MGM-UA into a separate,
publicly held company with Kerkorian as a major shareholder.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   U.S. industry in June operated at its highest
point in eight years, edging closer to a level that economists
believe signals a pickup in inflation, the government has reported.
   The Federal Reserve Board said Monday that American factories,
mines and utilities operated at 83.1 percent of capacity last
month, up 0.2 percentage points from May.
   It was the third consecutive monthly increase, the seventh rise
in nine months and the highest level since March 1980, when the
operating rate was 83.7 percent.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>PITTSBURGH (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Westinghouse Electric Corp. plans to sell its
elevator business to a Swiss competitor, Schindler Holding AG, for
an undisclosed sum of cash.
   The company said Monday a letter of intent covers Westinghouse
manufacturing operations in Gettysburg, Pa., and Randolph, N.J.,
the division headquarters in Morristown, N.J., and numerous
subsidiaries and sales and service offices throughout North America.
   The business employs about 5,500 people. Schindler, like
Westinghouse, makes, sells and services a broad range of elevators
and escalators. The Swiss firm has annual worldwide sales of $1.4
billion and about 22,000 employees.
</TEXT>
<BYLINE>By The Associated Press</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   Heavy rains in the drought-stricken Midwest sent grain and
soybean futures plummeting sharply lower Monday on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Soybeans for July delivery skidded more than $1.17
a bushel, the second-steepest one-day soybean price decline in the
exchange's history.
   Stock prices declined in sluggish trading. The Dow Jones average
of 30 industrials dropped 11.56 to 2,117.89.
   The dollar finished weaker against most key foreign currencies.
Gold prices also fell.
   Bond prices declined amid heightened inflation speculation.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0272 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0228EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f PM-LuxuryCars-Future     07-19 0586</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Luxury Cars-Future,0604</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Analyst: Domestic Luxury Marques Threatened by Boring Image, New
Imports</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JANET BRAUNSTEIN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Auto Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>DETROIT (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Makers of domestic luxury sedans, already plagued
by a dwindling, aging buyer base and a dull product image, likely
will lose market share in the next five years to foreign luxury
marques slated to enter the domestic market, according to industry
consultant J.D. Power.
   In an interview Monday, Power described a December survey of
2,100 luxury-car owners designed to identify the image of 22 luxury
marques, including four not yet sold in this country.
   Image itself is a vague concept of the general perception of a
car including its advertising, styling, handling and performance
and intangibles such as elegance.
   Power said the survey revealed a surprising lack of distinctive
image among many luxury names; those surveyed recognized only an
average of 2.7 marques, including the one they purchased within the
18 to 24 months before the survey was taken.
   Some luxury cars do have a clear image. Mercedes-Benz and Jaguar
particularly are considered elegant, prestigious, enjoyable to
drive, well-engineered, contemporary but classically styled and
distinctive, Power said.
   But domestic makes overall are seen as conservative, comfortable
and unexciting, he said. That is despite individual successes such
as Ford Motor Co.'s Lincoln division, which has attracted more
younger, import-oriented buyers while General Motors Corp.'s
Cadillac, Buick and Oldsmobile have not.
   Power said image-building is a lengthy and costly process, and
may lag behind a marque's actual sales, as with Lincoln.
   But he said all domestic makers of luxury sedans likely will
lose market share in the next five years to new entries such as
Nissan's Infiniti and Toyota's Lexus line, both from Japan, and,
possibly to Citroen and Opel from Europe.
   The luxury car market in the United States peaked in 1986 with
sales of 1.176 million. Power predicted a downturn to 1 million in
sales this year, followed by a drop to 969,000 in 1989 and a
recovery to 1.186 million sales by 1993.
   The luxury market's recovery will be fueled partly by the entry
of the new marques, he said.
   Infiniti and Lexus plan to offer six- and eight-cylinder engine
coupes and sedans and Honda's Acura luxury line plans a sedan with
an eight-cylinder engine, moving steadily in the arena dominated by
the Big Three, Power said.
   The new entries will find it easier to create solid, distinctive
images for their products because of their specialization and a
lack of the poor-quality and look-alike problems that marred
domestic nameplates such as Buick and Oldsmobile, Power said.
   Also, while 56 percent of luxury owners age 65 or older said
they shop only for domestic models, only 6 percent of buyers
younger than 35 said they would not consider imports. And 43
percent of those younger buyers said they did not consider domestic
cars at all.
   As the younger buyers age and move further into the luxury car
market, the Big Three will be forced to design with them in mind
and move their luxury-marque images in their direction if they hope
to lure them away from Japanese and European dealers, Power said.
   In addition to Lincoln's success, Big Three makers have begun
improving and modernizing their images by offering sportier
two-seat models such as the Cadillac Allante, Buick Reatta and the
much-delayed Chrysler Turbo Coupe by Maserati.
   European makers will not be similarly threatened as long as they
continue moving their cars upward in price and exclusivity, thus
protecting their images, he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0273 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0230EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f PM-Texaco-Icahn Bjt   07-19 0553</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Texaco-Icahn, Bjt,0571</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Icahn: Still Mulling Options After Texaco Defeat</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By RICK GLADSTONE</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Business Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Takeover strategist Carl Icahn says he still has
a myriad of options to pursue despite his defeat in a June proxy
fight attempt to win a block of seats on Texaco Inc.'s board of
directors.
   Texaco management on Monday confirmed earlier estimates that
shareholders rejected Icahn's attempt to place himself and four
associates on the board. Texaco said Icahn's dissident slate was
voted down by 58.6 percent to 41.6 percent, a much bigger margin
than earlier thought.
   Icahn, who owns a 14.8 percent chunk of Texaco stock, had
conceded defeat after the oil giant's annual shareholder meeting,
but had contended the vote was close.
   There had been speculation Icahn was awaiting the exact results
to determine how close he came to winning before deciding what to
do with his Texaco investment.
   Some Texaco-watchers speculated that a narrow vote might prompt
Icahn to challenge the outcome or make another attempt to get on
the Texaco board as part of a broader campaign to acquire the
company or force a restructuring that would raise the value of his
shares.
   ``We obviously regret that we lost, but hope that management
will do as they said and work to enhance stockholder value,'' Icahn
said in a statement issued by D.F. King & Co., the firm that
handled his proxy campaign.
   ``To answer the many queries concerning our position, there are
a myriad of options open to us at this time,'' he said. ``We have
not yet determined which one we will follow.''
   Texaco stock rose 37{ cents a share to $45.75 in New York Stock
Exchange trading.
   Texaco's management stated that Corporation Trust Co., which
tabulated the shareholder votes, reported 85 percent of the
company's 242.9 million shares outstanding were represented in
person or by proxy at the June 17 annual meeting in Tulsa, Okla.
   Excluding Icahn's stake, all Texaco-nominated directors received
71.4 percent of the shares voted, while directors nominated by the
Icahn group received 28.6 percent, Texaco said. That gave
management an overall victory margin of 58.6 percent to Icahn's
41.4 percent.
   There had been speculation that the fatal blow against Icahn's
effort was the vote for management by the investment firm of
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co., which had a 4.9 percent stake. But
the results announced Monday showed management would have won
regardless of how Kohlberg Kravis had voted.
   ``This substantial victory margin is the result of widespread
support among all Texaco stockholders,'' James W. Kinnear,
president and chief executive officer, said in the company's
statement on the results.
   Icahn sought board membership as part of an effort to force
Texaco management to consider his $60-a-share cash buyout offer,
which valued the company at $14.6 billion. Kinnear called the offer
insincere.
   Icahn, who has chased several big companies over the past few
years and acquired Trans World Airlines, began building a stake in
Texaco last year while the company was mired in bankruptcy court, a
result of its protracted multibillion-dollar legal battle with
Pennzoil Co.
   Icahn's motive of a possible takeover became clearer after
Texaco emerged from bankruptcy court a few months ago. He denounced
management's handling of the Pennzoil matter and claimed Texaco's
post-bankruptcy reorganization plan would not maximize shareholder
values.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0274 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0231EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f PM-USSprint Bjt   07-19 0809</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-US Sprint, Bjt,0837</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>GTE To Sell 30.1 Percent Stake In US Sprint To Partner</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By PETER COY</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Business Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   GTE Corp. is selling most of its stake in the
unprofitable US Sprint Communications Co. to its business partner
for $600 million and may eventually withdraw totally from ownership
of the nation's third-biggest long-distance telephone company.
   The tentative deal announced Monday carries high risks as well
as potential gains for United Telecommunications Inc., the phone
company that is raising its stake in US Sprint to 80.1 percent from
50 percent.
   GTE's share will fall to 19.9 percent at the beginning of 1989,
assuming completion of the deal.
   In a related announcement, Robert H. Snedaker, US Sprint's
62-year-old president, said he would take early retirement
effective Aug. 15.
   Standard & Poor's Corp., which rates the security of company
debt, announced late Monday it was considering a downgrade of
United Telecommunications' debt and an upgrade of GTE's debt.
   United Telecommunications, based in Kansas City, is one-fifth
the size of Stamford, Conn.-based GTE and is losing money because
of the red ink at US Sprint.
   US Sprint lost $138 million in the first quarter of 1988 after
racking up losses of $800 million last year. The two parents have
shared those losses equally.
   In addition to the huge costs of building a nationwide fiber
optic network, US Sprint has a history of billing problems that
have cut into revenue. It says the billing problems are largely
behind it.
   Financial analysts say United Telecommunications' management has
staked the future of the company on the success of US Sprint, which
is third in the long-distance market behind American Telephone &
Telegraph Co. and MCI Communications Corp.
   AT&T leads with about 72 to 73 percent of the long-distance
market, MCI is second with about 10 percent and US Sprint ranks
third with about 7 percent, according to Jack Grubman, an analyst
for PaineWebber Inc.
   Charles Schelke, an analyst at Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co.,
said he believes US Sprint has turned a corner toward
profitability, so United Telecommunications' increased ownership is
``a pretty good deal.''
   But he said, ``It depends on your view of US Sprint's future.''
   ``Obviously we believe that the opportunities far exceed the
risk,'' United Telecommunications spokesman Don Forsythe said.
   United Telecommunications stock closed unchanged at $33.62{ a
share, while GTE's fell 37{ cents a share to $40 in consolidated
New York Stock Exchange trading Monday.
   In a joint statement, GTE and United Telecommunications said:
``Both partners came to the conclusion that the 50-50 management
arrangement inherent in the present partnership agreement, although
important initially in launching US Sprint successfully, has become
an unnecessary burden given the dynamics of US Sprint's fast growth
and the rapidly changing environment of the long-distance
industry.''
   GTE and United Telecommunications formed US Sprint in July 1986
as a joint venture consisting of GTE's Sprint, United
Telecommunication's own US Telecom, and some smaller operations.
   Their projections of profitability for the company proved
premature. Last summer Charles Skibo resigned as president as the
company announced a $350 million pre-tax charge against
second-quarter earnings.
   Snedaker, who was named to succeed him, had been vice president
and chief operating officer of United Telecommunications.
   William T. Esrey, the president and chief executive of United
Telecommunications, will fill Snedaker's job on an interim basis.
Before the end of the year, United Telecommunication will take over
day-to-day management of US Sprint.
   Esrey issued a statement praising Snedaker, that said: ``We owe
him a great debt of gratitude for putting US Sprint's operations
back on track.''
   Even before its latest move, United Telecommunications had gone
to great lengths to support US Sprint. In May it announced it was
selling its cellular phone operations to Centel Corp. for $772
million, partly to raise cash for US Sprint.
   The estimated $600 million purchase price for the 30.1 percent
stake in US Sprint is based on estimates of the book value of the
partnership interest at the end of 1988.
   Under the deal, United Telecommunications would have the option,
until Dec. 31, 1995, to buy GTE's remaining 19.9 percent interest
in US Sprint at book value of Dec. 31, 1988, or at book value at
the time of the transaction, whichever is higher.
   Otherwise, GTE would have the option of requiring United
Telecommunications to buy its remaining interest at any time
between Dec. 31, 1991, and Dec. 31, 1995, at the book value
prevailing at the time of the transaction.
   United Telecommunications provides local phone service, mainly
in the Southeast and Midwest. It lost $51.5 million on revenue of
$2.98 billion in 1987.
   GTE also gets most of its revenue from local phone service,
although it also has data communications, Sylvania light bulbs,
specialty manufacturing and consumer communications products. It
earned $1.12 billion on revenue of $15.4 billion last year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0275 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0725EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f PM-Japan-Markets     07-19 0346</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Japan-Markets,0359</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Market Plunges, Dollar Falls</HEAD>
<DATELINE>TOKYO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Share prices took the largest drop of the year
today on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, and the dollar fell sharply
against the Japanese yen.
   The Nikkei Stock Average of 225 selected issues, a 251.67-point
loser the day before, plunged 513.09 points, or 1.89 percent,
closing at 27,149.03 points.
   It was the largest one-day decline of the key index since
December 26, 1987, when the Nikkei fell 587.50 points.
   Stock brokers attributed the decline purely to the internal
reasons. They said steel and shipbuilding shares, which had
supported the market over the past few weeks, finally gave way and
led to a decline across the board.
   Nippon Steel, one of the largest shares on the exchange, had
risen from the 400's to 750 yen in less than two months, but lost
54 points today.
   ``I can't see any outstanding reason why shares, especially
steel shares, fell this much today,'' said Ichitaro Watanabe, a
broker at Nikko Securities Co. ``The market seems to have entered a
transitional stage. The 500-point drop is a result of an adjustment
made for the transition.''
   Another stock broker said the plunge without apparent reason
indicated steel and ship building shares can no longer sustain the
market.
   ``The market as a whole was not in a good mood in the last two
weeks except for steel and shipbuilding shares,'' said Keiichi
Nishida of Kidder Peabody. ``Today's plunge indicates the end of
the steel-led market. Investors have to find other shares they can
count on.''
   In the foreign exchange market, the dollar, which gained 1.75
yen Monday, closed at 133.85 yen, down 1.30 yen from Monday's
close. After opening at 134.30 yen, it traded in a range of
133.70-134.38 yen.
   Currency dealers said early morning speculation on whether the
Bank of Japan would intervene in the market and sell dollars was
the major cause of the currency's decline.
   ``The speculation led to a one-sided selling of the dollar,''
said an exchange dealer at a major U.S. bank in Tokyo, speaking on
condition of anonymity.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0276 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0833EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f BC-Britain-Stocks     07-19 0166</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Britain-Stocks,0174</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>London Stocks Little Changed</HEAD>
<DATELINE>LONDON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Stock prices fell slightly Tuesday as the market
braced itself for another possible rise in British interest rates.
   The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-stock index was 2.8
points, or 0.2 percent, lower at 1,846.5 at midday. Trading volume
registered a modest 271.2 million shares, compared with 219.5
million shares at the same time Monday.
   Dealers remained unconvinced that Monday's half-point rise in
the British commercial banks' base lending rate to 10.5 percent
would be sufficient to dampen inflationary pressures in the economy.
   However, the pound was able to recover some lost ground which
diffused the immediate need for interest rate hikes, dealers said.
   Reported heavy central bank intervention to cap the dollar's
rise, combined with the effects of Monday's sixth rise in interest
rates in as many weeks, also helped buoy sterling against other
currencies, market watchers said.
   However, amid uncertainty about the near-term direction of
London equities, buyers were only interested in selected stocks,
dealers said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0277 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0839EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f PM-PacificBell     07-19 0347</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Pacific Bell,0359</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Pac Bell Proposes Giving up Monopoly on Local Calls</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By BOB EGELKO</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>SAN FRANCISCO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Pacific Bell, breaking from tradition, has
made a surprise proposal to give up its monopoly on local toll
calls in exchange for reduced state regulation.
   The giant local phone company called its proposal ``the most
significant change since the breakup of the Bell System in 1984.''
   Under the offer, the company would also expand the local
toll-free zone and offer push-button phones without extra charge in
exchange for the decreased regulation. If approved by the Public
Utilities Commission, the plan would give customers access to
high-technology, low-cost services.
   Consumer representatives greeted the proposal with trepidation.
   ``My biggest fear is that we will have the pretense of
competition but not the safeguards of competition,'' said Robert
Gnaizda, a lawyer who represents six minority and low-income groups
in the Pacific Bell rate case before the Public Utilities
Commission.
   Others would compete in handling local toll calls, but ``there
won't be any real competition'' and ``the company will escape
effective public and PUC scrutiny,'' Gnaizda said. Pacific Bell's
profit will exceed $1 billion this year, more than twice its
highest level before deregulation, he said.
   The Public Utilities Commission, which has suggested increasing
phone company flexibility in the new market created by the
dismemberment of the Bell system, will consider all the proposals
during the next year.
   According to Pacific Bell, the new proposal is more generous
than a plan the company presented in January in an attempt to
loosen state regulation.
   The Public Utilities Commission would continue to approve
residential rates after 1992, but without the exhaustive,
three-year inquiry of Pacific Bell's financial structure. Under the
plan, regulatory controls would also be loosened to allow new
services to be introduced more quickly.
   Monthly business rates would be allowed to rise gradually to
approach the cost of service. However, rates on premium residential
services such as call-forwarding, call-waiting and speed-dialing
would be cut.
   Pacific Bell said it also would expect reduced local toll rates
because of competition.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0278 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0858EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f PM-Perot-EDS     07-19 0311</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Perot-EDS,0323</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Perot Launches Contract Battle With EDS</HEAD>
<DATELINE>DALLAS (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Billionaire H. Ross Perot is waging a bidding war
for a lucrative Medicaid contract, taking on Electronic Data
Systems, the company he founded and steered to a huge share of the
automated health services market.
   EDS, a General Motors Corp. subsidiary since 1984, won the Texas
Medicaid contract in 1976.
   J. Livingston Kosberg, chairman of the board of the Texas Human
Services Department, said the department had not expected another
qualified bidder and had begun negotiating with EDS on the
financial terms of the pact, until Perot Systems Corp. entered the
picture.
   ``We certainly will be there and will bid,'' EDS spokesman Roger
Still said. ``We look at this as a competitor and will treat them
as a competitor.''
   Under the pact _ EDS assumes data-processing and administrative
responsibility for more than $800 million in the state's Medicaid
program _ EDS could net close to $7 million depending in part on
performance.
   Perot founded EDS in 1962 and sold the firm to GM in 1984. In
December 1986, after highly-publicized conflict between Perot and
GM, Perot and three other top EDS executives left the computer
services company when GM agreed to pay them $850 million.
   Under terms of the GM buyout agreement, Perot is barred from
operating a for-profit firm until after December 1989.
   Perot built national respect for EDS through health care
contracts.
   Wall Street analysts said Perot's extensive knowledge of EDS,
complemented by the two dozen former EDS employees on his staff,
give his firm some competitive strengths.
   ``Ross and his people ought to know exactly, contract by
contract, what EDS has,'' said Stephen McClellan, a technology
analyst with Merrill Lynch & Co. in New York. ``They'll know what
deals are expiring, what their (profit) margins are, and what it'll
take to beat them on a bid.''

</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0279 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0905EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f PM-Robins     07-19 0369</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Robins,0382</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Robins' Reorganization Plan Overwhelmingly Favored</HEAD>
<DATELINE>RICHMOND, Va. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A.H. Robins Co.'s plan to emerge from
nearly three years of bankruptcy protection has won the approval of
creditors, stockholders and Dalkon Shield claimants, but one hurdle
remains.
   At a hearing Monday, U.S. District Judge Robert R. Merhige said
he and U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Blackwell N. Shelley, who are
overseeing the case, cannot approve the plan unless it contains a
provision giving them authority to oversee a trust for Dalkon
Shield claimants.
   The plan would establish a trust of nearly $2.5 billion to
satisfy claims by women who allege they were injured by using the
Dalkon Shield intrauterine birth control device marketed by Robins
in the early 1970s. The plan also would provide for a $3.2 billion
buyout of the 122-year-old Richmond-based company by the American
Home Products Corp.
   Merhige gave attorneys a week to submit briefs on the proposed
revision.
   Robins attorney Dennis Drebsky told the judges the plan was
supported by about 95 percent of the 141,094 Dalkon Shield
claimants who sent in ballots, and by more than 99 percent of the
19 million stockholders who voted.
   The four banks owed a total of $15.6 million by Robins
unanimously backed the plan, under which the New York-based
American Home would pay Robins' creditors in full.
   Attorney Murray Drabkin of the Dalkon Shield Claimants Committee
said the plan, which needed the approval of two-thirds of each
class of voters, ``provides a just and fair resolution of the
case.''
   However, attorney Ralph Pittle, who represents several hundred
Dalkon Shield claimants, said the trust fund was inadequate and
that more claimants would have voted against the plan if they had
been better informed.
   The plan was difficult for claimants to understand, especially
since many of them do not have lawyers, Pittle said.
   If the judges approve the plan, there will be a 30-day period
before a confirmation order is issued. Even if appeals are filed,
payments to claimants would begin 30 days after court approval
using a $100 million fund set up by Robins.
   Robins filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in August 1985
in the face of mounting claims and settlement payments associated
with the Dalkon Shield.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0280 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1008EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f PM-WallStreet10am     07-19 0317</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Wall Street 10am,0335</2ND_LINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The stock market was mostly mixed today
following a sharp drop in share prices earlier in the Far East.
   The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials was up 2.13 points at
2,120.02 in the first half hour of trading.
   Advancing issues slightly outnumbered decliners in nationwide
trading of New York Stock Exchange-listed stocks, with 473 up, 446
down and 543 unchanged.
   Volume on the Big Board came to 19.32 million shares as of 10
a.m. on Wall Street.
   Analysts noted that earlier in Tokyo the key Nikkei 225-share
index plummeted more than 500 points amid panicky selling. ``It was
the largest point fall recorded this year,'' noted Hildegarde
Zagorski, a second vice president at Prudential-Bache Securities
Inc.
   She attributed the decline in Japan to inflation fears sparked
by higher oil prices, which rose on Monday following reports that
Iran had acceded to a United Nations resolution calling for a
cease-fire in its war against Iraq.
   On closer analysis, however, Zagorski said the first order of
business after any cease-fire would be for the two countries to
rebuild their economies, and that means pumping more crude.
   ``Oil prices have backed down today,'' she said, ``and the stock
market is not behaving too badly.''
   Among actively traded issues, IBM was off [ at 125; Union
Carbide was down ] at 24~; Philip Morris was up ~ at 91}, and Ford
was up [ at 51|.
   The NYSE's composite index of all its listed common stocks rose
0.10 to 152.93. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value
index was up 0.12 at 309.20.
   On Monday the Dow Jones industrial average dropped 11.56 to
2,117.89.
   Declining issues outnumbered advances by more than 9 to 5 on the
NYSE, with 518 up, 961 down and 484 unchanged. Big Board volume
came to 156.21 million shares, against 199.71 million in the
previous session.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0281 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1022EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f PM-OilPrices 1stLd-Writethru   07-19 0592</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Oil Prices, 1st Ld-Writethru,0612</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Oil Prices Shoot Up On News Of Possible Persian Gulf Cease-fire</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Grafs 1-8 new to update with oil prices dropping back; picks
up 8th graf pvs, The price ...</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By PETER COY</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Business Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Oil prices retreated today after a big jump in
the previous session that was fueled by speculation that peace
could break out in the Persian Gulf.
   The August contract for West Texas Intermediate, the benchmark
U.S. crude, fell 30 cents a barrel to $15.40 a barrel in the
opening minutes of trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
   That contract had jumped 84 cents a barrel on Monday _ the
biggest daily rise since April _ after Iran said it would accept a
United Nations resolution calling for an immediate cease-fire in
its nearly 8-year-old war with Iraq.
   Analysts said an end to the Iran-Iraq war might make it easier
for the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to reach
agreement on limiting production in order to boost prices.
   But analysts also expressed skepticism about the ability of OPEC
nations and non-OPEC members to end their chronic infighting and
overproduction, even if the Persian Gulf war halts.
   ``This is a very, very hype-sensitive market,'' said Madison
Galbraith, senior energy specialist for Merrill Lynch Energy
Futures.
   ``Very little has changed here aside from the psychology,'' said
Peter Beutel, assistant director of the energy group at Elders
Futures Inc.
   Monday's jump in the August contract was the biggest rise since
West Texas Intermediate soared $1.01 a barrel on April 11.
   The price jump was even bigger for the September contract, which
rose 92 cents to $15.89 a barrel.
   Monday's jump brought prices back to their levels of earlier
this month, before a steep skid in prices took hold because of
concerns about a worldwide oversupply of oil. Oil still remains
more than $1 a barrel below its level of mid-June.
   Among refined products traded on the New York Mercantile
Exchange, August No.2 heating oil jumped 2.15 cents a gallon to
43.27 cents a gallon. The August contract for unleaded gasoline
rose 1.38 cents a gallon to 51.11 cents a gallon.
   The rebound in West Texas Intermediate brought it back from its
recent low of $14.44 a barrel last Wednesday and nearly back to its
level of $15.83 a barrel on July 7.
   Analysts said crude futures were boosted by traders who had been
betting on further declines in prices and rushed to cover their
positions by buying contracts.
   Aiding the rebound in prices was a report that OPEC's price
monitoring committee would meet within the next 30 days.
   Part of OPEC's overproduction has been ``war relief'' production
by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates, which have
given the proceeds to Iraq to help in the battle with Iran, said
Frank P. Knuettel, an analyst for Prudential-Bache Securities Inc.
   A cease-fire could eliminate that source of production, he said.
   In addition, Saudi Arabia might be more willing to support
prices instead of punishing Iran by allowing prices to fall, said
Rosario Ilacqua, an analyst for Nikko Securities International Co.
Inc.
   But analysts remained uncertain about the outlook for harmony in
the fractious cartel. Furthermore, there was skepticism over the
possibility that any cease-fire would last.
   As part of its announcement, Iran said it would not withdraw its
troops from its borders and called on Iranians to prepare to thwart
further Iraqi attacks. Iraq, which has already accepted the
year-old U.N. resolution, said it remained skeptical about Iran's
intentions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0282 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1105EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>d f BC-Earns-Monsanto     07-19 0275</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Earns-Monsanto,0287</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Posts 43 Percent Profit Hike in 2nd-Qtr</HEAD>
<DATELINE>ST. LOUIS (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Monsanto Co. said Tuesday its second-quarter
profit climbed 43 percent from a year earlier, reflecting growth in
its agricultural, sweetener, chemical and electronic materials
businesses.
   The company said it earned a record $220 million, or $3.04 per
share, in the three months ended June 30 compared with $154
million, or $1.95 per share, a year earlier.
   Second-quarter sales rose 11.3 percent to $2.26 billion from
$2.03 billion a year earlier.
   For the first six months of 1988, net income reached a record
$430 million, or $5.90 per share, up 47 percent from a profit of
$292 million, or $3.71 per share, a year earlier.
   Six-month sales rose 12.9 percent to $4.39 billion from $3.89
billion a year earlier.
   Chairman Richard J. Mahoney said the results indicate that ``we
are making significant progress toward achieving our long range
financial goal of 20 percent return on equity by the early 1990s.''
   Monsanto is specializes in pharmaceuticals, agricultural
products, specialty chemicals, low-calorie sweeteners, industrial
controls and electronic materials.
   The Monsanto Agricultural Co. fueled the growth of
second-quarter earnings with significant sales growth of Roundup
and Lasso herbicides and Alimet poultry feed supplement, Monsanto
said.
   The NutraSweet Co. also had a strong quarter, reflecting
continued growth for products containing the artificial sweetener,
Monsanto said. Results from the quarter also included accelerated
shipments to certain customers to meet production scheduling
requirements. That will likely be reflected in somewhat lower
volume shipments in the second half of the year, Monsanto said.
   Its G.D. Searle, Fisher Controls and Monsanto Electronic
Materials Co. also showed strong improvements, Monsanto said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0283 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1117EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f PM-EconomyRdp 2ndLd-Writethru   07-19 0529</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Economy Rdp, 2nd Ld-Writethru,0546</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Oil Prices Surge; Grain, Soybean Futures Plummet</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Leads with 5 grafs with oil prices, picks up 5th graf pvs,
Soybeans for</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By The Associated Press</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   Housing construction partially recovered in June, rising 5.1
percent after plummeting 12.6 percent in May, the government said
today.
   The Commerce Department said the increase in housing starts was
the steepest in four months. Mortgage rates eased in June,
contributing to the revival.
   On Monday, reports of a possible cease-fire in the Iran-Iraq war
sent oil prices soaring, while grain and soybean futures plunged
following heavy weekend rains in the drought-stricken Midwest.
   On the New York Mercantile Exchange, the August contract for
West Texas Intermediate, the benchmark U.S. crude oil, shot up 84
cents a barrel Monday to settle at $15.70 a barrel. It was the
biggest rise since a jump of $1.01 a barrel on April 11.
   But prices retreated in early trading today. The August contract
for WTI fell 30 cents to $15.40 a barrel.
   Soybeans for July delivery skidded more than $1.09 a bushel, one
of the steepest one-day soybean price declines in the history of
the Chicago Board of Trade. July corn plunged 30 cents a bushel.
   The spike in oil prices reignited inflation worries on Wall
Street and in the credit markets.
   The concerns were heightened by a Federal Reserve Board report
that U.S. industry in June operated at 83.1 percent of capacity _
its highest point in eight years and edging closer to a level that
economists believe signals a pickup in inflation.
   The nervousness about inflation weakened stock prices. The Dow
Jones average of 30 industrials, up 23.30 points last week, dropped
11.56 to 2,117.89.
   Bond prices also fell, forcing interest rates higher. The yield
on the Treasury's closely watched 30-year bond jumped to 9.23
percent from 9.14 percent late Friday.
   The possibility of a breakthrough in the 8-year-old Iran-Iraq
conflict, along with aggressive dollar sales by central banks,
pushed the U.S. currency to a weaker finish against most key
foreign currencies. The dollar historically is regarded as a
safe-haven currency during times of unrest, and the prospect of
peace between the two Middle Eastern enemies spurred investors to
sell dollars.
   The news of a possible cease-fire between Iran and Iraq alao
raised prospects that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries would be able to calm its chronic infighting, which has
led to overproduction of oil and lower prices.
   The ensuing price jump in the futures market brought oil back to
its levels of earlier this month, before a steep skid in prices
sparked by concerns about a worldwide oversupply of oil.
   Analysts said prices were driven up by traders who had been
betting on further declines in prices and rushed to cover their
positions by buying contracts.
   Iran said Monday it would accept a United Nations resolution
calling for an immediate cease-fire in its war with Iraq. However,
Iran also said it will not withdraw its troops from its borders and
called on Iranians to prepare to thwart further Iraqi attacks.
   Supporting the price rebound was a report that OPEC's pricing
committee would meet within the next 30 days.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0284 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1117EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f PM-WallStreet11am     07-19 0321</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Wall Street 11am,0338</2ND_LINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The stock market turned slightly lower today
following a sharp drop in share prices earlier in the Far East and
mixed signals coming from the oil market.
   The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials was off 4.80 points at
2,113.09 in the first hour and a half of trading.
   Declining issues outnumbered advances by about 6 to 5 in
nationwide trading of New York Stock Exchange-listed stocks, with
532 up, 633 down and 540 unchanged.he Big Board came to 42.17 million shares
as of 11
a.m. on Wall Street.
   Analysts noted that earlier in Tokyo the key Nikkei 225-share
index plummeted more than 500 points amid panicky selling. ``It was
   Volume on t
the largest point fall recorded this year,'' noted Hildegarde
Zagorski, a second vice president at Prudential-Bache Securities
Inc.
   Some traders were surprised that the plunge in Tokyo did not
take greater a toll on the U.S. stock market. Zagorski attributed
the decline in Japan to inflation fears sparked by higher oil
prices, which rose on Monday following reports that Iran had
acceded to a United Nations resolution calling for a cease-fire in
its war against Iraq.
   But reports that Iran downed three Iraqi jets today cast a veil
of confusion over prospects for a cease-fire.
   ``Nobody has any direction,'' complained one equities trader.
``From a technical aspect, it looks like we're losing momentum ...
the stock
market.
   Among actively traded issues, IBM was off \ at 124~; Union
Carbide was down { at 24}; Tandem was off ~ at 18[, and Ford was up
{ at 52.
   The NYSE's composite index of all its listed common stocks fell
0.24 to 152.59. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value
index was off 0.10 at 308.98.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0285 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1144EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f PM-BoardofTrade Open   07-19 0372</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Board of Trade, Open,0385</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Crop Futures Open Sharply Lower On Rain Forecasts</HEAD>
<DATELINE>CHICAGO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Grain and soybean futures opened sharply lower
today on the Chicago Board of Trade as forecasts for more rain in
the drought-stricken Midwest provoked intense selling pressure for
the second straight day.
   Prices on most contracts for future delivery of corn, oats and
soybeans plunged their permissible limits at the opening bell,
halting trading in all but the limitless July contracts, which
expire at noon Thursday.
   The limit-down opening caused sell orders to pile up. Some 40
million bushels of soybeans and about 50 million bushels of corn
were awaiting buyers about 15 minutes after the opening.
   Weekend showers soaked farm fields in much of the northern Corn
Belt, and substantial rains were forecast for the region's southern
portion today through Wednesday, said Victor Lespinasse, a trader
with Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.
   Despite irreversible drought damage to much of the U.S. corn
crop, ``some of it will benefit, and the soybeans definitely will
benefit from all this recent rain,'' Lespinasse said.
   The National Weather Service's latest 6-to-10-day forecast,
calling for above-normal temperatures and mostly normal rainfall in
the Corn Belt during the early part of next week, was another
bearish factor, Lespinasse said.
   In early trading, wheat was 2 cents to 12\ cents lower with the
contract for delivery in July at $3.67 a bushel; corn was 3{ cents
to the limit 15 cents lower with July at $3 a bushel; oats were the
limit 15 cents lower to 1 cent higher with July at $2.88 a bushel;
soybeans were 18 cents to the limit 45 cents lower with July at
$8.67 a bushel.
   Livestock and meat futures were mixed in early trading on the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange.
   Live cattle were .45 cent lower to .33 cent higher with August
at 64.80 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .25 cent lower to .15
cent higher with August at 76.40 cents a pound; hogs were .85 cent
lower to .63 cent higher with July at 46.80 cents a pound; frozen
pork bellies were 1.90 cents lower to .75 cent higher with July at
37.30 cents a pound.
   Livestock and meat futures settled widely mixed on Monday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0286 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1208EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f PM-WallStreetNoon     07-19 0354</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Wall Street Noon,0371</2ND_LINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Stock prices headed lower today as investors
remained apathetic toward equities in a market awash in mixed
signals.
   The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials was off 14.76 points at
2,103.13 by midday.
   Declining issues outnumbered advances by almost 2 to 1 in
nationwide trading of New York Stock Exchange-listed stocks, with
469 up, 801 down and 524 unchanged.
   Volume on the Big Board came to 69.09 million shares as of noon
on Wall Street.
   The Dow average moved up about 2 points in the first half hour
of trading but then eased back as the session wore on despite
continued reports of higher corporate earnings for the second
quarter.
   ``The primary problem is the mood of the market,'' said Alfred
Goldman, a vice president at A.G. Edwards & Sons Inc. in St. Louis.
``I'm very disappointed with today's action. There's a worldwide
malaise about owning equities.''
   Goldman noted that despite relatively favorable fundamentals
such as lower interest rates and higher corporate earnings, ``the
vast majority of investors are in a very apathetic mood ... they're
not coming to the equities trough.''
   Earlier in Tokyo, the key Nikkei 225-share index plummeted more
than 500 points to its lowest level this year. Some traders were
surprised that the plunge in Tokyo did not take a greater toll on
the U.S. stock market.
   Hildegarde Zagorski, a second vice president at Prudential-Bache
Securities Inc., attributed the decline in Japan to inflation fears
sparked by higher oil prices, which rose on Monday following
reports that Iran had acceded to a United Nations resolution
calling for a cease-fire in its war against Iraq.
   But reports that Iran downed three Iraqi jets today cast a veil
of confusion over prospects for a cease-fire.
   Among actively traded issues, IBM was off ~ at 124\; Union
Carbide was down | at 24|; Tandem was off 1 at 18, and Ford was up
] at 51~.
   The NYSE's composite index of all its listed common stocks fell
0.78 to 152.05. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value
index was off 0.75 at 308.33.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0287 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1247EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a f BC-SwissArmyKnives Adv25   07-19 0857</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Swiss Army Knives, Adv 25,0879</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$adv 25</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Monday July 25 and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>Swiss Army Knives: Made Abroad, Marketed By Connecticut Company</HEAD>
<HEAD>LaserPhoto</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By DEAN GOLEMBESKI</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>SHELTON, Conn. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Swiss Army knife is one of those
products that keeps finding a new market _ from GIs in the foxhole
to yuppie campers on a weekend in the wild.
   And that's good news for a small Connecticut company that had
the good sense to promote the handy pocket tool from forgotten
sideline to bestseller.
   The story of how the Forschner Group Inc. of Shelton came to be
the exclusive U.S. marketer of Swiss Army knives is a classic tale
of serendipity. The company's founders picked up the knife in a
search for good European cutlery for butchers. Years later, new
owners would move the little red-handled knives to the top of the
line.
   Forschner sold more than 4 million of the knives in 1987 alone,
accounting for more than half the company's sales.
   ``It's a good business,'' said James W. Kennedy, Forschner's
37-year-old president and chief executive officer.
   The knives, manufactured by the Victorinox Cutlery Co. in
Switzerland, are readily identified by their color and many
gadgets. The most popular model, with about 500,000 units sold in
1987, is the Classic, a key chain model that has, in addition to a
knife blade, a nail file, scissors, tweezers and a toothpick.
   The latest addition to the more than 60 different models is the
SwissChamp, which was introduced this year. It has 29 features,
including a ballpoint pen, pliers, wood saw, fish scaler, corkscrew
and magnifying glass.
   The typical customer is a man between the ages of 21 to 35
living in the Northeast or Northwest, Kennedy said. The weakest
sales for the knives are in the Southeast.
   The company, whose stock is publicly traded, had record sales of
more than $36.4 million in 1987, up 24 percent from 1986. After
expenses, the company earned about $1.8 million. The previous
record was set in 1986, when Forschner rang up $27.3 million in
sales.
   The Swiss Army knives _ which range in price from $8 to $18 for
the Classic to $90 for the SwissChamp _ accounted for roughly $20
million of last year's sales.
   The United States snapped up about 35 percent of Victorinox's
output of Swiss Army knives in 1987. The sales have continued
upward despite a more than doubling of the effective price of the
knives in the past two years due to the declining value of the
dollar, Kennedy said.
   Americans got their first exposure to the knives following World
War II, when GIs were stationed in Europe. Kennedy said GIs ``gave
the name Swiss Army knife to the product ... because everyone in
the Swiss Army carried it.''
   The R.H. Forschner Co. started in 1855 as a manufacturer of
butcher scales in New Britain, Conn. Sometime during the 1880s, it
moved to New York City, where it remained until relocating to
Shelton in 1976. It currently employs 80 people at its headquarters
and a Shelton warehouse, where it does some assembly and repairs.
   Kennedy, who started with the company in sales in 1975, was
named president and chief operating officer in June 1987. He
assumed the new title of chief executive officer this March.
   ``The company after World War I started importing knives from
Germany, because they were selling scales to the meat-packing
industry. So, therefore, they could assume the same people would
buy knives,'' Kennedy said.
   ``World War II came along and their German source was naturally
unavailable. ... When the war ended, the grandson of the founder
went over to Switzerland because Germany was devastated and found
this little company called Victorinox that made very good butcher
knives and he started importing them,'' he continued.
   The Swiss Army knife, also made at the Swiss factory, was tossed
in for good measure.
   In 1957, the founding family sold R.H. Forschner to a
businessman who expanded the butcher knife segment and phased out
the scale business. In 1974, the business was sold again, this time
to Marline Resources Co. Inc. of New York City. Marline took the
company public in 1983.
   ``The business was purchased for the butcher knife business. And
lo and behold, sitting there in the corner was the litte Swiss Army
knife,'' Kennedy said.
   ``We did a market research study of the whole company, and the
market research study indicated that we had a great opportunity
with the Swiss Army knife.''
   The company turned up its marketing program for the knives in
1976 when it introduced sealed display cases, which are now used by
10,000 retailers to show off 10 to 20 knives.
   ``It was a very successful program,'' Kennedy said. ``It made it
a silent salesman. It's always there in the store. And frankly, ...
you don't get up in the morning and say, `I'm going to go out and
buy a Swiss Army knife.' It's something you know about and if you
see it in a store, it reminds you, `Hey I will want one of those.'''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv Monday July 25</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0288 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1220EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f BC-Earns-PhilipMorris     07-19 0248</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Earns-Philip Morris,0255</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Posts 31.6 Percent Profit Gain for 2nd Quarter</HEAD>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Philip Morris Companies Inc. said Tuesday its
second-quarter profit climbed 31.6 percent from a year earlier, as
its cigarette, food and brewing businesses each posted revenue
gains.
   The company said its after-tax profit rose to $627 million, or
$2.68 a share, in the three months ended June 30, compared with
earnings of $476 million, or $2 a share, a year earlier. Revenue
rose 10 percent to $7.8 billion from $7.1 billion.
   For the first six months of the year, Philip Morris's earnings
rose 30.9 pecent to $1.13 billion, or $4.80 a share, from $862
million, or $3.62 a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose 10.2
percent to $15.1 billion from $13.7 billion.
   Hamish Maxwell, chairman and chief executive, said domestic
cigarette revenue and unit volume each rose and the company
expanded its market share in the quarter and first half. Among its
cigarette brands are Marlboro, Virginia Slims, Benson & Hedges and
Merit.
   He said the company's Miller Brewing subsidiary had higher
operating revenue on higher barrel volume for both the quarter and
the half.
   Unit volume and revenue also grew at the General Foods USA
division, while the General Foods Worldwide Coffee & International
business had higher revenue on slightly lower volume.
   The company said volume growth was especially strong at the
Oscar Mayer Foods division, as both Oscar Mayer brand meats and
Louis Rich turkey products expanded their market shares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0289 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1317EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f AM-Boesky-Questions Bjt   07-19 0735</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Boesky-Questions, Bjt,0761</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Other Shoe in Boesky Scandal Hasn't Dropped</HEAD>
<HEAD>An AP News Analysis</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By RICK GLADSTONE</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Business Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   After months of leaks, rumors and innuendo about
impending mass indictments, the Ivan Boesky securities fraud
scandal has yet to result in a triumphant prosecution, raising
questions about the true strength of the government's case against
suspected Wall Street felons.
   The apparent weakness stems from the sources of evidence,
largely supplied by Boesky or a few accomplices who have negotiated
agreements for leniency in exchange for information about other
alleged lawbreakers.
   That suggests investigators are facing acute problems getting
corroboration from more credible witnesses and making sense out of
the enormous amounts of material subpoenaed in the probe.
   The biggest target, the investment firm Drexel Burnham Lambert
Inc., has yet to be formally accused of anything, although it has
been the subject of numerous press leaks. The Securities and
Exchange Commission has recommended civil charges of securities-law
violations against the firm and some key employees.
   Drexel has taken an increasingly combative approach toward the
crackdown. Drexel sources, speaking privately, have acknowledged
that the firm's senior management is preparing for a legal brawl
with the SEC and has briefed lower-level staff on what to possibly
expect in the weeks and months ahead.
   SEC officials have declined to comment on any aspect of the
Drexel matter. But people familiar with its investigation, speaking
on condition of anonymity, have suggested the agency is delaying
civil charges because of an incomplete criminal probe of Drexel by
the U.S. attorney's office.
   If the SEC filed civil charges first, Drexel would gain
wide-ranging access to the government's evidence and witnesses,
under the federal rules of pretrial evidence gathering. But Drexel
would be denied that opportunity if indicted first, because
criminal pretrial rules are much stricter.
   Drexel is not the only bottleneck in the government's
investigation. Prosecutors also have failed to bring new charges
against three Wall Street professionals arrested with great
publicity in February 1987 after they were implicated by a
confessed Boesky accomplice, merger specialist Martin A. Siegel.
   The original charges were dropped in May 1987 because the
government said it needed more time to prepare the case against
Robert M. Freeman, Timothy L. Tabor and Richard B. Wigton, trading
professionals who were accused of profiting in the stock market on
inside information supplied by Siegel.
   Manhattan U.S. Attorney Rudolf Giuliani's office promised at the
time to obtain broader indictments against the trio in
``record-breaking time.''
   Fourteen months later, officials in the U.S. attorney's office
decline to comment on why new charges have not been filed. But the
delay suggests that prosecutors, already embarassed once, are
reluctant to pursue a case without evidence that is more
substantial than Siegel's testimony.
   Lawyers for the three men express resentment over the
government's handling of their clients, who remain under a cloud of
suspicion without formal charges. The lawyers have indicated they
will immediately move to dismiss any new charges on grounds they
violate the constitutional right to a speedy trial.
   One indication that the government has progressed in its
Boesky-related investigation came earlier this month when a grand
jury indicted GAF Corp. and a vice chairman for alleged stock
manipulation, based on evidence supplied by another Boesky
associate and admitted felon, Boyd L. Jefferies.
   But securities lawyers have said the prosecutors could face an
embarassing defeat without evidence that corroborates Jefferies'
testimony. They say manipulation is one of the most difficult
crimes to prove regardless of evidence.
   Even if the government triumphs in the GAF case, the results of
the Wall Street corruption crackdown have been much milder than
first predicted when Boesky, one of the biggest stock speculators,
was arrested in November 1986.
   He paid the SEC a record $100 million to settle insider-trading
charges and was sentenced last December to three years imprisonment
on a single felony count of conspiring to lie to the SEC. But
Boesky has yet to testify in any proceeding against others he has
implicated.
   Boesky's lawyers contend his cooperation has exceeded original
estimates, resulting in a dozen criminal charges, four guilty pleas
and nine SEC administrative actions.
   In arguing for a reduced sentence a few months ago, the lawyers
claimed more indictments would emerge soon, showing ``the
extraordinary extent and value of Mr. Boesky's cooperation.''
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   EDITOR'S NOTE: Rick Gladstone reports on business ethics and
practices for The Associated Press.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0290 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 0634EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a f PM-BusinessMirror Adv19   07-19 0596</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Business Mirror, Adv 19,0613</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$adv 19</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release PMs Tuesday July 19</NOTE>
<HEAD>It's How You Look at It</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JOHN CUNNIFF</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Business Analyst</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Is it a sign of great weakness that the United
States owed $368 billion to foreign creditors at the end of 1987,
more than was owed by any other nation? Or is it a sign of strength?
   The popular position is that the ``debt'' is further evidence of
a decline of the U.S. economy. The United States, it is said, is
the world's largest debtor nation, the insinuation being that debt
is bad.
   In this instance, however, the debt referred to can also be
viewed as strength. There is even a school of thought that declines
to call it debt, pointing out instead that much of the money is
invested.
   They ask you to consider this simple equivalent:
   When you put $20,000 into a $100,000 house for your family do
you explain to your friends that you have just gone deeply into
debt, or do you tell them you've just made the best investment of
your life?
   Most people would say the $20,000 was invested. And so would any
foreigner who put money into U.S. stocks, bonds and real estate.
Such folks invest for a good return. They don't see themselves as
lenders. They really aren't.
   The popular view of the United States being the largest debtor
nation comes from a comparison of U.S. investments abroad vs.
foreign investments in the United States. It is true: Foreigners
invest more here than we do there.
   Do they do so because they lack faith? Or because of the
attractiveness of American investments? Does it indicate an Uncle
Sam with his hand out? Or foreigners eager to get in on good
investments?
   In short, is it debt, or is it investment? Is it weakness _ or
strength?
   While those who call it debt are entitled to do so, others point
out that if foreigners buy stock in a company, put money in an
American bank, buy U.S. government securities or purchase a
production plant, they are investing.
   It makes sense. The U.S. market is the world's biggest by far.
The country is also the most politically stable, a factor that has
dictated investments as far back as international trade itself. And
U.S. investments are inexpensive.
   It is the latter factor, a direct result of the decline of the
U.S. dollar, that has been the latest spur to foreign investments
in the United States.
   Sanford Simon, a New York-based broker who has arranged at least
70 U.S. investments for British companies, offers some succinct
reasons for the phenomenon.
   Despite belonging to the European Economic Community, he says,
the British have an island economy. It is a mature economy in which
successful companies long ago carved out their niches. The result:
``They butt heads in a small market.''
   They look for ways to expand, especially if they have good cash
flow, and they see the biggest market of all in the United States _
growing, evolving, changing and, to boot, English-speaking.
   English laws discourage dividend distributions, a situation that
produces problems for good companies. They must expand, and what
better place to do so than in America where, because of the
devalued dollar, businesses are available at a discount?
   There is another side of the coin. If the United States economy
is so attractive to foreigners, why shouldn't it be equally so to
Americans? That is, why should they have to send their money abroad?
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv PMs Tues July 19</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0291 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1405EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f BC-Japan-AutoParts 1stLd-Writethru   07-19 0162</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Japan-Auto Parts, 1st Ld-Writethru,0166</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Japanese Auto Parts Maker To Set Up Plant In U.S.</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: SUBS 3rd graf pvs, PK USA will ... to CORRECT name of company
to Kogyo sted Kyogo. Picks up 4th graf pvs, The plant ...</NOTE>
<DATELINE>TOKYO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A major Japanese auto parts manufacturer announced
Tuesday it will set up a new plant in the United States to
manufacture and sell auto parts to domestic and Japanese car makers
in the United States.
   Press Kogyo, Co., based in southwestern Kawasaki, said PK USA
will be located in Shelbyville, Ind.
   PK USA will be owned 75 percent by Press Kogyo and the remaining
25 percent by Mitsui and Co., a Japanese trading company, company
spokesman Mitsuru Kataoka said.
   The plant, which will begin operating by the end of 1989, will
hire about 155 employees, the spokesman said.
   The manufactured car parts will include metal and plastic parts
for use in passenger cars and trucks, he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0292 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1408EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f AM-Britain-Stocks 1stLd-Writethru   07-19 0177</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Britain-Stocks, 1st Ld-Writethru,0185</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Stocks Off</HEAD>
<DATELINE>LONDON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Prices fell Tuesday in a quiet session on the
London Stock Exchange as the market digested Monday's half-point
rise in the British commercial banks' base lending rate.
   The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share index dropped 4.5
points, or 0.2 percent, to close at 1,844.8.
   Volume rose to a moderate 447.7 million shares, compared with
Monday's 366.4 million shares.
   Dealers said British equities ignored developments on Wall
Street until about the last hour of London dealings, when a key
market indicator in New York abruptly fell about 15 points.
   The Dow Jones industrial average was off 14.94 at 2,102.95 as
London trading ended.
   Players were still preoccupied by concerns that Monday's
half-point rise in the British commercial banks' base rates to 10.5
percent would be insufficient to curb inflation, dealers said.
   However, sterling rose on the foreign exchange markets,
diffusing the immediate need for an interest rate hike, dealers
said.
   Meanwhile, amid uncertainty about the near-term direction for
London equities, buyers were only interested in selected stocks,
dealers said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0293 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1417EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f PM-WallStreet2pm     07-19 0414</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Wall Street 2pm,0434</2ND_LINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Stock prices held at sharply lower levels today
as computerized sell programs kicked in and took their toll on
equities.
   The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials was off 29.87 points at
2,088.02 by mid-afternoon.
   Declining issues outnumbered advances by more than 2 to 1 in
nationwide trading of New York Stock Exchange-listed stocks, with
453 up, 970 down and 461 unchanged.
   Volume on the Big Board came to 105.59 million shares as of 2
p.m. on Wall Street.
   The Dow average moved up about 2 points in the first half hour
of trading but sank below the psychologically important 2,100 level
at midday and then continued to fall despite continued reports of
higher corporate earnings for the second quarter.
   Hildegarde Zagorski, a second vice president at Prudential-Bache
Securities Inc., noted that the decline began in the technology
sector, where several stocks tumbled. ``That started the ball
rolling, and then we got the sell programs.''
   Other analysts remarked on a sense of apathy among investors.
``The primary problem is the mood of the market,'' said Alfred
Goldman, a vice president at A.G. Edwards & Sons Inc. in St. Louis.
``I'm very disappointed with today's action. There's a worldwide
malaise about owning equities.''
   Goldman noted that despite relatively favorable fundamentals
such as lower interest rates and higher corporate earnings, ``the
vast majority of investors are in a very apathetic mood ... they're
not coming to the equities trough.''
   Earlier in Tokyo, the key Nikkei 225-share index plummeted more
than 500 points to its lowest level this year.
   Zagorski attributed the decline in Japan to inflation fears
sparked by higher oil prices, which rose on Monday following
reports that Iran had acceded to a United Nations resolution
calling for a cease-fire in its war against Iraq.
   But reports that Iran downed three Iraqi jets today cast a veil
of confusion over prospects for a cease-fire.
   Among technology issues, IBM was off 1~ at 123\. The company
introduced new computers and personal computer software. Tandem
fell } to 18\; the company faces a new challenge from Digital
Equipment in the transaction processing business.
   Among other actively traded Big Board issues, Union Carbide was
down 1 at 24\; Interco was up 3[ at 57{; and Exxon was off ~ at 45].
   The NYSE's composite index of all its listed common stocks fell
1.67 to 151.16. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value
index was off 1.03 at 308.05.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0294 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1445EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f BC-Earns-Media     07-19 0404</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Earns-Media,0415</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Earnings Down at Times Mirror, Up at Time, Media General, Tribune</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By The Associated Press</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   Times Mirror Co. said Tuesday its profits fell in the second
quarter, while Time Inc., Tribune Co. and Media General Inc.
reported gains.
   Times Mirror reported a 4.8 percent drop in after-tax profit to
$79 million, or 62 cents a share, down from $83 million, or 64
cents a share, in the same period last year. Revenue rose 4 percent
to $818.1 million from $784.1 million.
   Times Mirror, which publishes the Los Angeles Times and Newsday
among other publications, attributed the drop in earnings to
weakness in advertising and higher costs of newsprint.
   For the first half of 1988, Times Mirror reported a profit of
$154.1 million, or $1.20 a share, which was up from $141.2 million,
or $1.09 a share in the first half of 1987. Revenue rose to $1.6
billion from $1.5 billion.
   Time, with interests in magazines and broadcasting, said its
profit rose 7.7 percent in the second quarter to $84 million, or
$1.45 a share, from $78 million, or 1.30 a share, in 1987. Revenue
advanced 5.8 percent to $1.1 billion from $1.04 billion.
   For the first six months, Time had earnings of $150 million, or
$2.58 a share, compared with of $124 million, or $2.06 a share, a
year earlier. Revenue rose to $2.17 billion from $1.98 billion.
   Tribune Co. said its second-quarter profit climbed 31 percent to
$63.6 million, or 84 cents a share, from $48.6 million, or 61 cents
a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose 10 percent to $613 million
from $559.3 million.
   Tribune, which publishes newspapers and owns broadcast stations
and the Chicago Cubs baseball team, said earnings for the first six
months totaled $95.8 million, or $1.26 per share, compared with
$65.2 million, or 82 cents per share, a year ago. Revenue increased
to $1.13 billion from $1.04 billion.
   Media General reported a profit of $16.2 million, or 56 cents a
share, in the second quarter, a 28 percent gain from $12.7 million,
or 44 cents a share, in the same period last year. Revenue rose 5.1
percent to $196.6 million from $187 million.
   Media General, which has publishing and broadcast interests,
said earnings for the first six months rose to $27.7 million, or 96
cents a share, from $20.7 million, or 72 cents a share, last year.
Revenue increased to $382.6 million from $354 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0295 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1451EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f AM-Mazda-Ford     07-19 0538</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Mazda-Ford,0553</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Mazda Introducing New Minivan, Possible Sale of Ford Trucks</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JANET BRAUNSTEIN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Auto Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>DETROIT (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Japan's Mazda Motor Corp. is talking with Ford
Motor Co. about selling Ford trucks through U.S. Mazda dealers in a
reversal of Mazda's traditional relationship with Ford, Mazda's
president said Tuesday.
   Norimasa Furuta also said Mazda plans to introduce a sporty
Japanese-built minivan this fall and will decide by the end of the
year whether to build an engine plant at Flat Rock, where its
assembly plant opened in September.
   Ford owns 25 percent of Mazda and receives more than half of the
cars produced at Flat Rock _ which was built on the site of a
closed Ford metal casting plant. The engine plant would be part of
an effort to increase the U.S. content of cars made at Flat Rock to
75 percent by 1991, Furuta told the Automotive News World Congress.
   Mazda expects to sell 270,000 imported and domestic cars and
100,000 trucks in the United States during 1988 and eventually
wants to sell 500,000 vehicles a year here.
   Ironically, Ford sold Mazda compact pickups before Ford
developed its own small trucks earlier this decade. Mazda also
supplied Ford first with small cars and then began sharing
development with Ford, as with the new Probe _ designed by Ford,
engineered by Mazda, built by Mazda at Flat Rock and sold by Ford
dealers. A second version of the car, the Mazda MX-6, is sold by
Mazda dealers.
   ``Now our relationship has reached the stage where there may be
the opportunity in some future programs for the historical roles to
be reversed,'' Furuta said. ``Ford could supply Mazda with
components and could build vehicles for Mazda to sell ... entering
a new age of true reciprocity.''
   Furuta said Mazda is talking with Ford on a wide variety of
subjects including the possibility of selling Ford compact pickups
through U.S. Mazda dealers because of the strength of the Japanese
yen and the 25 percent U.S. duty on Japanese pickups.
   Other small pickup alternatives could include assembling the
pickups in Japan from U.S.-made parts _ which would not be subject
to the duty when the trucks were shipped to the United States, he
said.
   Ford spokesman Ken Brown confirmed the discussions on sale of
Ford trucks through U.S. Mazda dealers but said he was unfamiliar
with the possibility of selling Mazda components for assembly in
Japan.
   The Ford Probe is selling so fast that ``Ford is requesting that
we reach full capacity at Flat Rock as soon as possible,'' Furuta
said. Production at the plant is being accelerated slowly to keep
quality under tight control.
   At full capacity, the plant can make 240,000 cars a year, but
Furuta said it could build 300,000 cars a year without additional
investment and will do so if demand remains strong.
   More than 60 percent of the cars built at Flat Rock are Probes.
The plant's production was sold out through the end of the year
shortly after large-scale production began.
   Brown said both Mazda and Ford would like to see more cars
coming out of Flat Rock, but neither would be willing to compromise
the quality of vehicles built there.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0296 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1546EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f BC-Earns-Coca-ColaEnterprises     07-19 0237</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Earns-Coca-Cola Enterprises,0245</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Coca-Cola Enterprises Earnings Up 16.9 Percent</HEAD>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc., the bottler spawned
by Coca-Cola Co., said Tuesday its profit rose 16.9 percent in the
second quarter on an 18.3 percent gain in revenue.
   The Atlanta-based company attributed the gains to increased
volume, improved operating effiencies and the inclusion of recently
acquired bottling companies in the results.
   The company was formed in 1986 out of Coca-Cola-owned bottling
operations and is 49 percent owned by Coca-Cola Co.
   Coca-Cola Enterprises said its volume in cases rose about 22
percent in the second quarter and 19 percent in the first half,
largely because of acquisitions. If all acquisitions of bottling
operations in 1987 and 1988 had occurred at the beginning of 1987,
volume would have increased about 9 percent in the second quarter
and 6 percent for the six-month period.
   The company issued $250 million in preferred stock during the
second quarter. Because of the dividend payments on that, net
income available to common shareholders rose 11.4 percent, less
than the overall rise in net income.
   Net income rose to $41.0 million in the second quarter from
$35.1 million. Net income available to common shareholders rose to
$39.1 million, or 28 cents a share, from $35.1 million.
   Revenue rose to $1.10 billion from $929 million in the second
quarter and rose 16.8 percent to $1.95 billion from $1.67 billion
in the first half.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0297 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1516EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f PM-WallStreet3pm     07-19 0446</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Wall Street 3pm,0466</2ND_LINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Stock prices held at sharply lower levels today
as a weakened technology sector and overall investor nervousness
took their toll on equities.
   The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials was off 24.72 points at
2,093.17 an hour before the closing bell.
   Declining issues outnumbered advances by more than 11 to 5 in
nationwide trading of New York Stock Exchange-listed stocks, with
446 up, 1,004 down and 468 unchanged.
   Volume on the Big Board came to 123.31 million shares as of 3
p.m. on Wall Street.
   The Dow average moved up about 2 points in the first half hour
of trading but sank below the psychologically important 2,100 level
at midday and then continued to fall despite continued reports of
higher corporate earnings for the second quarter.
   Hildegarde Zagorski, a second vice president at Prudential-Bache
Securities Inc., noted that the decline began in the technology
sector, where several stocks tumbled. ``That started the ball
rolling,'' and then computer-triggered sell programs kicked in, she
said.
   Other analysts remarked on a sense of apathy among investors.
``The primary problem is the mood of the market,'' said Alfred
Goldman, a vice president at A.G. Edwards & Sons Inc. in St. Louis.
``I'm very disappointed with today's action. There's a worldwide
malaise about owning equities.''
   Goldman noted that despite relatively favorable fundamentals
such as lower interest rates and higher corporate earnings, ``the
vast majority of investors are in a very apathetic mood ... they're
not coming to the equities trough.''
   Earlier in Tokyo, the key Nikkei 225-share index plummeted more
than 500 points to its lowest level this year, which contributed to
investor nervousness when trading shifted to New York.
   Zagorski attributed the decline in Japan to inflation fears
sparked by higher oil prices, which rose on Monday following
reports that Iran had acceded to a United Nations resolution
calling for a cease-fire in its war against Iraq.
   But reports that Iran downed three Iraqi jets today cast a veil
of confusion over prospects for a cease-fire.
   Among technology issues, Seagate Technology plunged 5| to 12~ in
over-the-counter trading. One trader said that helped trigger
further declines in the industry because Seagate provides parts to
other computer makers.
   Elsewhere in the technology sector, IBM fell 1| at 123{. The
company introduced new computers and personal computer software.
   Among other actively traded Big Board issues, Union Carbide was
down { at 24}; Interco was up 3~ at 58\; and Exxon was off } at 45{.
   The NYSE's composite index of all its listed common stocks fell
1.35 to 151.48. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value
index was off 1.12 at 307.96.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0298 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1519EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f BC-BoardofTrade Close   07-19 0247</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Board of Trade, Close,0257</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Corn, Soybean Futures Close Limit Down</HEAD>
<DATELINE>CHICAGO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Prices for some corn and soybean futures
contracts closed down their permissible limits Tuesday on the
Chicago Board of Trade amid forecasts for more rain in the
drought-stricken Midwest.
   But analysts said that after two consecutive days of limit
losses, the markets appeared to have discounted all the rain that
the Corn Belt is likely to receive this week.
   ``I think we'll have a two-sided trade tomorrow,'' said Victor
Lespinasse, a trader with Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. in Chicago.
``We'll probably open lower but not necessarily.''
   Oat futures also closed lower but wheat futures advanced on
expectations of new export business, analysts said.
   The wet-weather pattern that drenched parts of the upper Midwest
over the weekend continued on Tuesday, bringing rain to the
region's parched southern and western portions. More rain was
expected in the northern Corn Belt on Wednesday.
   The rain halted further deterioration of the badly damaged corn
crop and greatly improved the prospects for good soybean yields,
analysts said.
   At the close, wheat was 4 cents to 8\ cents higher with the
contract for delivery in July at $3.75} a bushel; corn was the
limit 15 cents lower to 4 cents higher with July at $3.08 a bushel;
oats were 13 cents lower to 3 cents higher with July at $2.90 a
bushel; soybeans were 6{ cents to the limit 45 cents lower with
July at $8.73 a bushel.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0299 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1620EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f AM-Earns-Phone     07-19 0362</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Earns-Phone,0375</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>2nd-Qtr Profit Up at Ameritech, Down at Southwestern Bell</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By The Associated Press</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   Two of the regional Bell telephone holding companies reported
divergent second-quarter results Tuesday as Ameritech announced a
27 percent profit gain while Southwestern Bell Corp. said its
earnings fell 14 percent.
   Ameritech, based in Chicago and parent of five Bell phone
companies in the Midwest, said the sale of its Canadian cellular
telephone holdings and strong growth in its U.S. mobile phone
business helped boost its results.
   Ameritech reported net income of $351.5 million, or $2.58 per
share, for the three months ending June 30, compared with $275.8
million, or $1.96 per share, for the same period a year ago.
   Revenue for the quarter increased 4.6 percent to $2.48 billion
from $2.37 billion, Ameritech said in a statement.
   Net income for the first six months of 1988 totaled $646.6
million, or $4.73 per share, compared with $564.8 million, or $3.99
per share, for the same period a year ago.
   First-half revenues totaled $4.89 billion compared with $4.67
billion.
   Ameritech is the holding company for Bell companies serving
Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio and Wisconsin.
   Southwestern Bell, based in St. Louis and parent of Southwestern
Bell Telephone Co. and some smaller subsidiaries, said it earned
$212.9 million, or 71 cents a share, down from $248.8 million, or
83 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose 7.8 percent to $2.03
billion from $1.89 billion.
   For the first six months of the fiscal year, Southwestern Bell
fell 11.3 percent to $431.6 million, or $1.44 per share, from
$486.5 million, or $1.62 per share, a year earlier. Revenue rose to
$4.03 billion from $3.76 billion.
   The weaker earnings were in line with expectations and were
related to the expense of shutting down Silver Pages operations,
the cost of acquiring new cellular and paging properties, and
increases in telephone company expenses, the company said.
   ``We remain confident of our ability to produce earnings growth
for the year,'' Zack Barnes, the chairman and chief executive, said
in a written statement. He noted among other things that the
company's 10 largest Yellow Pages directories will be published in
the second half of 1988.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0300 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1555EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f PM-WallStreet355pm     07-19 0042</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Wall Street 355pm,0048</2ND_LINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Stock prices recovered somewhat from their worst
levels but remained depressed in light dealings today.
   Five minutes before the close, the Dow Jones average of 30
industrials was off 20.09 points at 2,097.80.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0301 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1641EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f BC-Earns-Northrop     07-19 0376</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Earns-Northrop,0385</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Aerospace Firm Posts Profit of $21.9 Million in 2nd Qtr.</HEAD>
<DATELINE>LOS ANGELES (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Northrop Corp. posted a profit Tuesday of
$21.9 million in the second quarter, compared to a $15.4 million
loss a year earlier, when the company took a large write-off on a
secret project believed to be the Stealth bomber.
   The aerospace company reported that its sales for the quarter
fell 5.2 percent to $1.35 billion from $1.42 billion in the second
quarter of 1987.
   In the first six months of the year, Northrop's profit climbed
to $161.5 million, or $3.44 a share, compared with $25.2 million,
or 54 cents a share, a year earlier. Six-month revenue fell 4
percent to $2.71 billion from $2.83 billion a year earlier.
   The company attributed the improved second-quarter results to
absence of a $124.3 million write-off it took in the second quarter
of 1987 on a project it hasn't officially identified, but which is
widely believed to be the B-2, or Stealth bomber. Earlier this
year, Northrop and the Air Force acknowledged for the first time
the company is developing the bomber, which is designed to be
difficult to detect on enemy radar.
   Second-quarter operating profit was cut by lower revenues on the
unnamed classified program, as well as by reduced sales and lower
profit margins on guidance units for the Air Force's MX missile and
other military projects. Revenue also was reduced because of a
Pentagon policy that requires contractors to pay a larger share of
research and development costs that they previously did, the
company said.
   Production of inertial measurement units for the MX has lagged
behind schedule, but the company says it now is producing the units
on a schedule acceptable to the Air Force. The government is
withholding less than $50 million in progress payments on the MX
systems, down from a high of $145 million in December 1987,
Northrop said.
   Northrop is one of three Southern California aerospace companies
whose offices were searched last month in the nationwide
investigation of allegations that defense industry consultants
bribed Pentagon officials for information to help win contracts.
The company has said it is cooperating in the probe, which so far
has centered on independent industry consultants and former Defense
Department officials.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0302 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1619EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f PM-WallStreetClosing     07-19 0133</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Wall Street Closing,0142</2ND_LINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Stock prices sank today amid computer-driven
sell programs and investor nervousness following a sharply lower
markets overseas.
   Analysts said the market's momentum continues to abate, and a
500-plus point plunge in Tokyo's key Nikkei 225-share index only
served to heighten investor uneasiness as the session began.
   ``Some investors are hesitant to hold on amid even the slightest
weakness rather than ride out the correction,'' noted Eugene
Peroni, a technical analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott in
Philadelphia.
   Slightly higher bond prices and positive corporate earnings for
the second quarter provided only minimal support for equities.
   Traders pointed to the technology sector as being particularly
weak. ``The fact that we had very vague leadership was partly a
cause for the market's poor behavior,'' Peroni said.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>MORE</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0303 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1831EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f AM-Earns-Banks     07-19 0604</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Earns-Banks,0626</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Citicorp, Wells Fargo, Mellon, Irving Post 2nd-Quarter Profit</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By The Associated Press</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   Four of the nation's largest banking companies on Tuesday
reported profits in the second quarter in contrast with steep
losses a year earlier.
   Citicorp, Wells Fargo & Co., Mellon Bank Corp. and Irving Bank
Corp. noted that the second-quarter losses in 1987 stemmed from
additions to loan reserves for potentially uncollectible loans to
developing countries.
   Great Western Financial Corp., one of the biggest U.S. thrifts,
said its second-quarter earnings jumped 22 percent _ to $64.7
million, or 50 cents a share, from $53 million, or 40 cents a
share, a year earlier.
   New York-based Citicorp, the nation's largest bank holding
company, said it earned $359 million, or $1.03 a share, compared
with a loss of $2.6 billion in the second quarter of last year.
   If the loan-loss provisions hadn't been made, Citicorp said, it
would have earned $285 million, or 93 cents a share, in the second
quarter of 1987.
   Citicorp attributed the improvement in the latest quarter to
continued strength in its core banking businesses in the United
States and abroad. Much of the momentum in banking came from
Citicorp's credit card business, the company said.
   The banking giant also credited positive results from securities
and currency trading during the quarter, as well as gains from
venture capital loans.
   In the first half of the year, Citicorp posted net profit of
$717 million, or $2.04 a share, compared with a net loss of $2.3
billion in the first six months of 1987.
   San Francisco-based Wells Fargo, the 11th-largest U.S. bank
company, reported second-quarter earnings of $124.4 million, or
$2.24 a share, compared with a net loss of $293.7 million a year
earlier.
   Excluding the provision for risky loans, Wells Fargo would have
earned $83.6 million, or $1.45 a share, in the second quarter of
last year.
   The company said an increase in net interest income, resulting
from favorable market conditions in California, was a major factor
in the second-quarter improvement. Wells Fargo, which acquired
Barclays Bank of California in May, is the third-largest banking
company in the state.
   In the first half of the year, the bank posted net profit of
$244.8 million, or $4.39 a share, compared with a net loss of
$215.4 million a year earlier.
   Mellon, based in Pittsburgh and the 16th-biggest bank company,
posted net income for the latest quarter of $28 million, or 75
cents a share, as opposed to a net loss of $566 million a year
earlier.
   For the first six months of the year, Mellon earned $53 million,
or $1.40 a share, compared with a net loss of $626 million in the
1987 half.
   New York-based Irving, the 24th-largest bank company and the
long-time target of a hostile takeover bid from Bank of New York
Co., said it earned a record $169.9 million, or $8.85 a share,
compared with a net loss of $142 million in the second quarter of
1987.
   In the first half, Irving had net income of $222.3 million, or
$11.56 a share, compared with a net loss of $113.4 million a year
earlier.
   Great Western Financial, based in Beverly Hills, Calif., said
the 22 percent rise in its second-quarter earnings reflected solid
performances by each of its core businesses, including continued
growth in lending.
   By contrast, earnings in the first half fell 14.8 percent _ to
$121 million, or 95 cents a share, from $142 million, or $1.11 a
share, a year earlier. The company said its results benefitted from
exceptionally strong gains from sales of home mortgage loans in the
first six months of 1987.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0304 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1739EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f AM-Dollar-Gold     07-19 0525</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Dollar-Gold,0546</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Dollar Falls, Gold Prices Rise</HEAD>
<HEAD>Precede LONDON BC</HEAD>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The dollar slumped in foreign exchange Tuesday
after the central banks of several nations entered the market to
force the U.S. currency lower.
   Gold prices rose sharply in domestic trading in response to a
rally in the silver market. Republic National Bank of New York
quoted a bid of $445.75 for a troy ounce of gold as of 4 p.m. EDT,
up $8.25 from late Monday.
   Dealers said the dollar fell as the Bank of Japan and West
German and Swiss central banks entered the market in the second
consecutive day of intervention against the U.S. currency.
   John McCarthy, vice president of foreign exchange at Irving
Trust Co., said traders sold the dollar because of the aggressive
tone of the intervention.
   Dealers in Europe said the intervention was not large but was
significant because the central banks seemed to be trying to push
the dollar down rather than just restrain its rise.
   Some of Tuesday's decline was due to profit-taking after the
dollar's surge over the last eight weeks, McCarthy said.
   Jack Barbanel, a first vice president with Gruntal & Co. Inc.,
said interest rate hikes overseas, which he said are unlikely to be
matched in the United States during an election year, gave strength
to other currencies and contributed to the dollar's decline.
   On Monday, Britain's commercial banks raised their base lending
rates for the sixth time since early June.
   The dollar closed sharply lower against the British pound on
Tuesday. The pound rose to $1.70385 in New York, compared with
$1.6745 late Monday. In earlier London trading, sterling rose to
$1.6937 from late Monday's $1.6693.
   The dollar slipped to 133.155 Japanese yen in New York, compared
with 134.515 yen late Monday. It had closed at 133.90 yen in London
and dropped 1.30 yen in Tokyo to close at 133.85 yen.
   Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Monday's
prices, included: 1.8535 West German marks, down from 1.8749;
1.5374 Swiss francs, down from 1.5565; 6.2515 French francs, down
from 6.3445; 1,374.00 Italian lire, down from 1,388.00; and 1.19735
Canadian dollars, down from 1.2065.
   Other late dollar rates in Europe, compared with late Monday's
rates, included: 1.8640 West German marks, down from 1.8823; 1.5475
Swiss francs, down from 1.5625; 6.2845 French francs, down from
6.3415; 2.1010 Dutch guilders, down from 2.1130; 1,383.60 Italian
lire, down from 1,390.50; and 1.2011 Canadian dollars, down from
1.2095.
   Silver prices rose sharply on technical factors in New York
trading, giving a boost to gold in the process.
   Silver soared to $7.727 a troy ounce on the Commodity Exchange
in New York from late Monday's $7.15. In earlier London trading,
the metal was unchanged at $7.13 a troy ounce.
   Gold picked up $8.70 a troy ounce on the Commodity Exchange,
closing at $446.50.
   In earlier London trading, gold rose to a late bid of $437 a
troy ounce, compared with $436.25 bid late Monday.
   In Zurich, gold rose to close at a bid $436.50 compared with
$435 bid late Monday.
   In Hong Kong, gold fell $1.02 to close at a bid $438.98.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0305 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1904EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f AM-Earns-McGraw-Hill     07-19 0224</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Earns-McGraw-Hill,0234</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Profit Up 12 Percent in Second Quarter</HEAD>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   McGraw-Hill Inc. reported Tuesday that its
profit rose 12 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier,
boosted by increased revenue from all its operating companies.
   The diversified publisher said its net income increased to $44.8
million, or 92 cents a share, in the latest three months from $40
million, or 79 cents a share, in the second quarter of last year.
   Second-quarter revenue rose 4.2 percent, to $443.7 million from
$425.9 million a year earlier.
   Results for the latest quarter include the sale of the company's
49 percent interest in Nikkei-McGraw-Hill, a joint venture
publishing company in Japan, for $283.1 million. The gain on the
sale was $109.8 million after taxes. McGraw-Hill said it also took
previously announced asset writedowns and other unusual charges in
the second quarter totaling $107.6 million after taxes.
   ``All of our operating companies produced revenue increases in
the second quarter,'' said Chairman Joseph L. Dionne.
   As of July 1, McGraw-Hill was restructured into three operating
companies: publishing, financial services and information services.
   For the first half of the year, earnings rose 14.9 percent _ to
$71.8 million, or $1.48 a share, from $62.5 million, or $1.23 a
share, a year earlier.
   First-half revenue was up 5.3 percent, to $839.3 million from
$797.4 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0306 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1758EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f AM-WallStreet 1stLd-Writethru   07-19 0595</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Wall Street, 1st Ld-Writethru,0615</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>Eds: Updates with closing prices throughout.</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By MARIANN CAPRINO</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Business Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The stock market skidded lower Tuesday as
investor nervousness over the direction of interest rates overrode
a flurry of favorable corporate earnings reports.
   The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials, which fell more than 11
points on Monday, dropped another 20.63 to close at 2,097.26.
   Declining issues outnumbered advances by about 9 to 5 in
nationwide trading of New York Stock Exchange-listed stocks, with
517 issues up, 918 down and 492 unchanged.
   Volume on the floor of the NYSE was 144.11 million shares, down
from 156.21 million in Monday's session. Nationwide, consolidated
volume in NYSE-listed issues, including trading at regional
exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 168.11
million shares.
   Stock prices were mixed at the opening of trading but soon
headed lower. By midday the Dow sank below the psychologically
important 2,100 mark and continued to hold at depressed levels
despite repeated reports of higher corporate earnings for the
second quarter.
   Hugh Johnson, a senior vice president at First Albany Corp.,
noted that higher interest rates overseas coupled with fear that
the Federal Reserve may also hike rates in this country ``is the
principal reason making the market nervous.''
   He said the market largely discounted repeated double-digit
corporate earnings increases for fear ``they will be neutralized by
higher interest rates ... down the road.''
   The technology sector, which typically has been a leader in
propelling the market to higher levels, was particularly weak. ``It
can be a little depressing (elsewhere in the market) when you see
that group give ground,'' Johnson said.
   With the technology sector down, computer-driven sell programs
kicked in and further depressed stock prices.
   Noting that the market is continuing to lose momentum, some
analysts remarked on a sense of apathy among investors and a mood
that is negative toward equities.
   Eugene Peroni, a technical analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott in
Philadelphia, said investors ``are hesitant to hold on amid even
the slightest weakness, rather than ride a correction through.'' He
attributed the ``near-sighted behavior'' to residual trauma from
last October's stock crash.
   Earlier in Tokyo, the key Nikkei 225-share index plummeted more
than 500 points to its lowest level this year. But because the drop
largely was a reaction to Monday's sharply higher oil prices,
traders said it did not take a toll on domestic trading.
   Among technology issues, Seagate Technology plunged 5{ to 13
following a sharply lower earnings report. It was the most active
issue in over-the-counter trading, and one trader said Seagate's
decline affected other companies in the industry because it
provides parts to other computer makers.
   Elsewhere in the technology sector, IBM, which introduced new
computers and personal software Tuesday, fell 1] at 124; NCR fell
3] to 58\; Prime Computer was off \ at 15 and National
Semiconductor was off \ at 11\.
   Among other actively traded Big Board issues, Union Carbide was
down } at 24{; Interco was up 4 at 58]; Exxon was off | at 45|, and
Polaroid was unchanged at 34.
   As measured by Wilshire Associates' index of more than 5,000
actively traded stocks, the market lost $17.18 billion, or 0.64
percent, in value.
   The NYSE index was off 1.03 at 151.80.
   Standard & Poor's index of 400 industrials fell 2.52 to 310.18,
and S&P's 500-stock composite index was off 2.04 at 268.47.
   At the American Stock Exchange, the market value index fell 0.69
to 308.39. The NASDAQ composite index for the over-the-counter
market closed at 391.28, off 3.49.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0307 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1800EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f AM-CommodityRdp     07-19 0799</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Commodity Rdp,0827</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Corn, Soybean Futures Plunge Again As Rain Continues</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By DAVID DISHNEAU</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   Rainy weather brought another sharp drop in corn and soybean
futures prices Tuesday on the Chicago Board of Trade and some
analysts wondered if the Midwestern drought had finally been
quenched.
   On other markets, silver futures soared to a 10-month high;
energy futures fell; livestock and meat were mostly lower; and
stock-index futures retreated.
   The wet-weather pattern that drenched parts of the upper Midwest
over the weekend brought rain on Tuesday to the region's parched
southern and western portions. More rain was expected in the
northern Corn Belt on Wednesday.
   Analysts said the rain halted further deterioration of the badly
damaged corn crop and greatly improved the yield prospects for
soybeans, which are just entering the critical pod-forming stage.
   Some corn and soybean contracts plummeted their permissible
limits in reaction to the rain, and analysts said that after two
consecutive days of limit losses, the markets appeared to have
discounted all the rain in sight for the Corn Belt.
   ``I think we'll have a two-sided trade tomorrow,'' said Victor
Lespinasse, a trader with Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. in Chicago.
``We'll probably open lower but not necessarily.''
   Lespinasse said the weather would continue set the market's
course and Cathy Leow, an assistant vice president with Thomson
McKinnon Securities Inc. in New York, agreed.
   ``Last week a lot of people bought soybeans at $9 thinking they
were going to go to $13,'' she said. ``Now they're thinking, `My
god, what if we continue to get rain?'.
   ``It could be that the drought's broken,'' Ms. Leow said.
``Sure, we need 10 to 15 inches of rain in most areas to bring the
soil moisture back to normal ... but at least we're not seeing
further deterioration in the crops.''
   Although it was uncertain how much rain the western Corn Belt
would receive overnight, Ms. Leow said the price drop of the last
two days probably had taken a substantial rainfall into account.
   Oat futures also finished lower but wheat futures advanced on
expectations of new export business, analysts said.
   Wheat settled 6 cents to 8{ cents higher with the contract for
delivery in July at $3.76 a bushel; corn was the limit 15 cents
lower to 5 cents higher with July at $3.08{ a bushel; oats were 14
cents lower to 3 cents higher with July at $2.90 a bushel; soybeans
were 6 cents to the limit 45 cents lower with July at $8.74{ a
bushel.
   The price for July delivery of silver soared more than 57 cents
on New York's Commodity Exchange to $7.727, the highest price for
near-month delivery since Sept. 10, when the September contract
closed at $8.
   Analysts cited a number of factors for the rise, including the
two-day old Peruvian silver miners' strike and growing investment
demand for silver as a hedge against inflation.
   World supplies of silver are plentiful and the strike in Peru,
which accounts for about 20 percent of world production, normally
would have little long-term effect on prices, said Fred Demler,
metals analyst with Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. in New York.
   ``If investment demand were not picking up, the fact that the
supply is being disrupted from Peru would not have a large impact''
on the supply-demand scenario, he said.
   A bullish technical picture also spurred buying of silver, which
helped boost prices of other precious metals, other analysts said.
   Gold settled $8.70 to $9.80 higher with August at $447.50 a troy
ounce; silver was 57.7 cents to 62.5 cents higher with July at
$7.727 a troy ounce.
   Oil futures prices retreated on the New York Mercantile Exchange
as traders grew skeptical that a possible cease-fire in the
Iran-Iraq war would soon reduce the world oversupply of oil,
analysts said.
   West Texas Intermediate crude oil settled 7 cents to 47 cents
lower with August at $15.23 a barrel; heating oil was .37 cent to
.65 cent lower with August at 42.90 cents a gallon; unleaded
gasoline was .46 cent lower to .15 cent higher with August at 50.65
cents a gallon.
   Lower cash values pressured cattle futures prices on the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange while pork futures fell on expectations of
weakening cash prices, analysts said.
   Live cattle were 1.18 cents lower to .23 cent higher with August
at 63.87 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .15 cent to .68 cent
lower with August at 76.10 cents a pound; hogs were .80 cent lower
to .48 cent higher with July at 46.65 cents a pound; frozen pork
bellies were .70 cent to 1.20 cents lower with July at 35.85 cents
a pound.
   The contract for September delivery of the Standard & Poor's 500
stock index settled 1.85 points lower at 270.45 on the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0308 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1906EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f BC-Earns-Drugs     07-19 0401</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Earns-Drugs,0412</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Drug Manufacturers Report Higher Second Quarter Earnings</HEAD>
<HEAD>By The Associated Press</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   The nation's leading drug manufacturers reported double-digit
increases in both profits and worldwide sales of their health-care
products for the second quarter.
   Bristol-Myers Co., American Home Products Corp., Eli Lilly & Co.
and Upjohn Co. reported gains in both domestic and overseas
operations.
   Bristol-Myers, based in New York, reported net income of $190.5
million, or 66 cents a share, up 18 percent from $161.5 million, or
56 cents a share a year ago. Revenue totaled $1.46 billion, up 11
percent from $1.31 billion in the second quarter of 1987.
   For the first half, Bristol-Myers reported net earnings of
$401.13 million, or $1.39 a share, on revenue of $2.98 billion,
compared with net income of $335.39 million, or $1.17 a share, on
revenue of $2.66 billion in the first six months of 1987.
   American Home Products, also based in New York, reported net
income of $215.8 million, or $1.48 a share, up 10 percent from
$195.9 million, or $1.33 a share in the year ago period. Revenue
totaled $1.37 billion, up 12 percent from $1.23 billion a year ago.
   For the first six months, American Home reported net income of
$452.9 million, or $3.10 a share on revenue of $2.78 billion. In
the first half of 1987, net income totaled $412.3 million, or $2.78
a share, on revenue of $2.52 billion.
   Indianapolis-based Lilly reported second-quarter net income of
$180.7 million, or $1.27, up 21 percent from $150.3 million, or
$1.03 a share a year ago. Sales for the quarter totaled $1.01
billion, up 10 percent from $925.9 million last year.
   For the first six months, Lilly reported net income of $413.9
million, or $2.89 a share, on sales of $2.09 billion. In the
previous year, the company reported earnings of $355.5 million, or
$2.42 a share, on revenue of $1.89 billion.
   At Kalamazoo, Mich.-based Upjohn, second quarter earnings rose
12 percent to $87.8 million, or 47 cents a share, from $78.6
million, or 42 cents a share a year ago. Revenue totaled $721.6
million, up 10 percent from $655.5 million in the second quarter of
1987.
   Earnings for the first six months of the year reached $183.2
million, or 98 cents a share, on sales of $1.38 billion, up from
$159.5 million, or 85 cents a share, on sales of $1.26 billion in
the first half of 1987.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0309 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2001EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f AM-BrazilLoan     07-19 0247</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Brazil Loan,0256</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>U.S. To Participate in Short-Term Loan to Brazil</HEAD>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Treasury Department said Tuesday it had
agreed to participate in a $500 million, short-term bridge loan to
Brazil.
   The Bank for International Settlements, an organization in
Switzerland of the world's central banks, also is participating,
the department said in a statement.
   A Treasury Department official, who spoke on condition of
anonymity, said U.S. participation would amount to about half of
the loan, which must be repaid by Dec. 30. It is intended to tide
Brazil over until an International Monetary Fund loan is disbursed
later this year.
   Mailson Ferreira da Nobrega, Brazil's finance minister, recently
told bankers in London that this month his country will pay foreign
commercial banks the interest it owes them for June and July,
bringing it up to date for interest due from the beginning of the
year.
   Brazil and a committee of its major creditor banks reached an
agreement last month to end a moratorium on interest payments begun
by Brazil in February 1987. The agreement calls for the
rescheduling of Brazil's $62 billion debt to foreign banks and the
issuing of $5.2 billion in new loans.
   The nation's total foreign debt of $120 billion is the biggest
in the developing world.
   Brazil also is taking steps to restrain inflation and curtail
its government deficit.
   ``United States participation in this multilateral effort
indicates our strong support for Brazil's economic reform
efforts,'' the Treasury Department statement said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0310 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1951EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>d f AM-AutoPrices     07-19 0097</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Auto Prices,0100</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Chrysler Announces Price Of Eagle Summit</HEAD>
<DATELINE>HIGHLAND PARK, Mich. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Chrysler Motors Corp. said Tuesday
its two Eagle Summit subcompact model cars will have suggested
retail prices of $9,084 and $10,066.
   Chrysler said the 1989 four-door Summit DL model will have the
lower price and the four-door Summit LX the higher. Prices were
effective with shipments that began in late June.
   The Summit, built by Mitsubishi, is the third vehicle to carry
the Eagle name. The others are the Eagle Premier, an intermediate
sedan, and the Eagle Medallion sedan and station wagon.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0311 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2008EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f BC-Earns-Honeywell     07-19 0254</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Earns-Honeywell,0267</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Honeywell Posts 41.8 Percent Profit Drop In Second Quarter</HEAD>
<DATELINE>MINNEAPOLIS (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Honeywell Inc. on Tuesday posted a 41.8
percent drop in its second quarter profit from a year earlier, due
mainly to $43 million in one-time charges and to accounting changes.
   Honeywell said its net income fell to $31.6 million, or 75 cents
a share, from $54.3 million, or $1.21 a share, in second quarter
1987.
   Sales in the three months ended July 3 rose to $1.75 billion
from $1.57 billion a year earlier.
   James J. Renier, president and chief executive officer of the
defense contractor and maker of building controls, said quarterly
results reflected a $27 million after-tax charge related to cost
overruns on fixed-price contracts in the military avionics group
and a $16 million charge to cover losses in a semiconductor product
line.
   The military avionics group also suffered a reduced asset value
under more stringent accounting rules, said Susan Eich, a company
spokeswoman.
   ``With the exception of the previously announced charges in our
military avionics group, performance in our other major businesses
remains strong, with increases in both sales and operating
profit,'' Renier said.
   Renier said operating profit was up in the following divisions:
industrial automation and control, defense and marine systems, home
and building automation and control, and international business.
   Six-month net income was $89.3 million, or $2.11 a share, down
from $98.0 million, or $2.17 a year ago. Total sales for the first
half of 1988 were $3.48 billion, compared with $3.05 billion in
1987.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0312 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1951EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>d f AM-BoeingOrder     07-19 0159</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Boeing Order,0166</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Boeing Gets Orders and Options for 15 Airplanes</HEAD>
<DATELINE>SEATTLE (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   America West Airlines has placed orders and
options for 15 Boeing 737-300 twinjets, Boeing Commercial Airplanes
announced Tuesday.
   The total includes an unannounced prior order for five jets,
plus a new order for five and options for five more. The 10 firm
orders are valued at more than $280 million, Boeing said.
   Two of the jets were delivered last week, another is scheduled
to be delivered in September and two more in October. Other
deliveries will occur in December 1989 through April 1990, Boeing
said.
   America West is based in Phoenix, and has an all-Boeing fleet of
54 737s, seven 757s, and three de Havilland DHC-8-100s. de
Havilland is Boeing's Canadian subsidiary.
   The 737-300 seats 143 passengers in America West's configuration.
   Including the new order, 38 customers worldwide have ordered 770
of the -300 model. Total 737 orders for all models stand at 2,153.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0313 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1931EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f AM-Earns-FirstRepublicBank 1stLd-Writethru   07-19 0420</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Earns-First RepublicBank, 1st Ld-Writethru,0433</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>First RepublicBank Announces Loss</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: SUBS 7th graf pvs, Because of ... to CORRECT with six-month
earnings figure for 1987. Picks up 8th graf pvs, The holding ...</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By SUZANNE GAMBOA</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>DALLAS (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   First RepublicBank Corp., undergoing a
federally-assisted bailout, reported Tuesday that it lost $758
million in the second quarter, citing deteriorating values on real
estate assets and foreclosed properties.
   ``As forecast at the annual meeting of shareholders last month,
the second-quarter losses were substantial,'' said Albert V. Casey,
chairman and chief executive officer.
   The company had lost $313.2 million in the second quarter a year
ago.
   During the first quarter of 1988, First RepublicBank recorded a
$1.5 billion loss, and its loss for the six months ending June 30
was $2.26 billion.
   First RepublicBank's first quarter loss, the largest ever for a
U.S. bank after Citcorp's $2.5 billion loss in 1987, forced the
company to launch an emergency federal recapitalization plan.
   The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. in May infused $1 billion
into the holding company, formed through the merger of InterFirst
Corp. and RepublicBank Corp. in May 1987.
   For purposes of comparison, the company said it had a loss of
$302.8 million for the first six months of 1987.
   lost The holding company attributes its latest loss to
deteriorating values on real estate held as loan collateral and
repossessed properties which it is unable to resell.
   ``The market is very, very soft,'' said Joe Bowles, First
RepublicBank spokesman.
   It said its nonperforming assets totaled $5.135 billion, up $671
million from the quarter ending March 31.
   Casey said in a statement that declining values of its real
estate slowed slightly in the second quarter. ``I clearly cannot
report, however, that we have reached bottom at this point,'' he
said.
   The company's recapitalization plan is under examination by the
FDIC and Bowles said the second quarter earnings report would not
affect the agency's acceptance of it. ``We've kept the FDIC and
other regulatory parties fully apprised,'' Bowles said.
   The plan was submitted last month with several other proposals
and the FDIC was expected to choose a plan for the company this
month.
   ``We had hoped for a favorable decision on our plan by now, but
the FDIC has required additional time to study all available
options,'' said Casey. ``We remain confident that the First
Republic plan is the most viable of those options and will
ultimately be accepted.'' Company officials now expect a plan to be
chosen within a weeks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0314 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 1932EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f AM-BerettaVendetta 1stLd-Writethru   07-19 0376</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Beretta Vendetta, 1st Ld-Writethru,0384</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Italian Arms-Maker Sues U.S. Carmaker Over `Beretta' Name</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: SUBS 5th graf pvs, In Detroit ... with 2 new grafs of GM
comment. Picks up 6th graf pvs, The Italian ...</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By JOHN M. DOYLE</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Beretta, the Italian arms manufacturer, sued
General Motors Corp. for $250 million Tuesday, claiming its
centuries-old reputation for fine workmanship will be ruined if the
carmaker continues producing a four-wheeled Beretta.
   Fabrica D'Armi P. Beretta SpA, maker of firearms since the late
15th century, charged GM with trademark infringement and unfair
competition in a federal lawsuit.
   Beretta, which calls itself ``the oldest manufacturer of arms in
the world,'' said its lawyers warned GM about using the Beretta
name a year before the automaker unveiled the Chevrolet model in
1987.
   The arms maker, based in the Italian province of Brescia, said
the company had registered trademarks in this country for the
Beretta name as far back as 1954.
   In Detroit, General Motors issued a statement that said ``no
basis for the suit exists because there is no likelihood for
confusion as to the source of those vehicles between GM and the
Beretta gun company.''
   ``The GM employee who selected the Beretta name was unaware of
the existence of the Beretta gun company. Moreover, in the United
States it is not uncommon that vehicle models and firearms have the
same names, such as Colt and Marlin. GM is not aware of any
customer confusion concerning the Beretta name,'' the statement
from GM said.
   The Italian concern, which makes luggage, clothing, cutlery and
optical equipment as well as target, hunting and military guns,
claimed that for the past four centuries its products ``have become
synonymous with refined workmanship and the very highest quality.''
   The lawsuit contends Beretta pistols are the standard military
sidearm in several countries. The U.S. Army signed an $80 million
contract for 315,000 Beretta pistols in 1985, but has been forced
by Congress to hold a new competition among pistol companies for
its next order.
   Other examples of the gunmaker's reputation can be found in
literature, where the Italian-made pistols are the weapons of
choice for numerous fictional spies and detectives, including Ian
Fleming's Agent 007 James Bond.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0315 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2241EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>d f BC-China-Quality     07-19 0191</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-China-Quality,0199</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>China Creates New Bureau to Oversee Quality</HEAD>
<DATELINE>BEIJING (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   China has set up a new state bureau to oversee
efforts to reduce the number of shoddy, substandard goods on the
market and help Chinese products meet international quality
standards, an official daily said Wednesday.
   State Councillor Song Jian said Tuesday the State Bureau of
Technical Supervision would strengthen supervision over technology
and establish an authoritative system of standardization and
measurement, the China Daily said.
   The bureau will manage and adjust national standards on
production, development, distribution and consumption. Song said
the country must actively adopt international standards and a
system of international quality authentication to make Chinese
goods more competitive on world markets.
   He said that since China initiated its economic reforms and
open-door trade policy in 1979, the country has put into effect
more than 11,000 state standards and 500 measurement regulations.
   But he said substandard products remain a serious problem for
China.
   The daily said a spot check of industrial products earlier this
year found that only 20 percent fully satisfied national standards.
Among tractor gears checked, for example, only 13.3 percent met
quality specifications.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880719-0316 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-88 2251EDT</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f AM-Farmers-Batus     07-19 0430</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Farmers-Batus,0445</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Idaho Rejects Farmers Takeover; Hearings Continue in Washington</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By KATIA BLACKBURN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>SEATTLE (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Batus Inc. received another setback Tuesday in
its attempted hostile takeover of Farmers Insurance Group, as
Idaho's state insurance director rejected the proposed acquisition.
   Regulators in nine states where Farmers has offices must approve
the proposed $4.5 billion, $63-a-share offer, and California and
Oregon already have rejected the buyout plan.
   Batus, the U.S. arm of British conglomerate BAT Industries PLC,
filed an appeal in California and was expected to appeal in Oregon.
   Anthony J. Fagiano, director of Idaho's Department of Insurance,
stated that Farmers in Idaho hearings had cited a threat to the
maintenance of its Pocatello, Idaho, regional office and the
possible adverse effect on the southeast Idaho economy if the
office was closed.
   Farmers also cited its record of providing competitive medical
malpractice liability insurance for Idaho hospitals.
   ``While Batus officials did not assert they would close the
Pocatello office or discontinue medical malpractice liability
insurance for hospitals in Idaho, their commitment contained
significant reservations in the Director's view,'' Fagiano's
statement read.
   Louisville, Ky.-based Batus issued a statement that it was
confident it could allay Fagiano's concerns and would immediately
him to ``discuss with him the appropriate assurances on these
points.''
   Arizona has approved the takeover, and hearings have begun or
decisions are pending in Illinois, Ohio and Kansas. A hearing in
Washington before that state's insurance commissioner continued
Tuesday, and another is planned in Texas.
   Attorneys for Farmers and its exchanges say Batus could make any
number of changes onces it takes over as sole owner, including
saddling Farmers with a $1.6 billion acquisition debt.
   During the many hearings, Farmers attorneys have cited
recommendations made to Batus by consultants it hired last year,
recommending that Batus eliminate Farmers' life and medical
malpractice insurance policies and its discounts for non-smokers.
They also say Batus could hike premium rates and shut down claims
offices.
   But Batus has promised not to change Farmers management and to
let the company operate as it has.
   Batus, which would borrow $3.2 billion of the $4.5 billion
acquisition cost, claims its parent company has such good credit
that it does not need collateral and does not need a backup plan in
the event later loan refinancing requests are denied.
   Batus has more than 40,000 employees in its subsidiaries and
ranked in the top 100 corporations in the United States last year
with $5.8 billion in sales. It owns Saks Fifth Avenue and Marshall
Fields, and Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp., a major cigarette
maker.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
